124 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
In trying to obviate this result I found, perhaps contrary
to expectations, that the exudation liquid should be exposed to the air
for a few hours before it is injected into a subsequent animal. This
result was contradictory to the effect which Pasteur had found to be
exercised by atmospheric oxygen on the virulence of microbes, and it
requires at least some provisional explanation. The microbes of cholera
differ from a certain number of other microbes in that they stand in
need of a free and abundant access of air for growing and multiplying
quite satisfactorily. They are deprived of this condition in the peri-
toneal cavity of an animal. It is possible, therefore, that a certain
opposition between the maintenance or development of virulence on the
one hand, and a lowering in vitality on the other, takes place while
they are cultivated there, and a respite must be given them between
each successive 'passage' through the Guinea pig by leaving them for
a time in the free atmosphere. Be that explanation true or not, the
result is that under such conditions the successive animals inoculated
with the virus do succumb, and even in a shorter and shorter time, after
the inoculation, the microbe apparently undergoing under such a treat-
ment a progressive increase in virulence. A similar development up to a
certain stage was observed by Pasteur when transferring the rabies
virus from rabbit to rabbit. The last difficulty that presented itself was
the following: The exudation liquid which is found in the peritoneal
cavity post mortem varies in quantity; sometimes it is inconveniently
large and diluted; sometimes, on the contrary, so scanty that it becomes
difficult to collect and transfer it to another animal. I found that this
variation stands in connection with the size of the animal, so that a
diluted exudation fluid can be concentrated by injecting it into a small
animal, while a too much concentrated exudate is rendered more dilute
by transferring it to an animal of a larger size.
Thus, by the initial use of more than a fatal dose, by alternating
cultivation in an animal with exposure to air, and by attention to the
size of the animal employed, a material was obtained which, as men-
tioned, increased in intensity from the first and proved fatal to animals
in a shorter and shorter time after inoculation. Later the virus reached
a stage when it killed a Guinea pig of three hundred and fifty
grammes weight in eight hours. After that, in each further inocula-
tion the time of eight hours remained stationary, showing that the virus
has reached the condition of a 'virus fixe/ These experiments were
conducted by me in the Pasteur Institute, in 1889 to 1893, simultane-
ously on the cholera microbe and on the bacillus of typhoid. The two
exhibited a number of common features in their nature, and the results
as above detailed for the cholera microbe were found valid for the
typhoid bacillus also.
Starting from the Virus fixe' obtained as above, a method of double
