128 POPULAR SCIENCE MONTHLY.
He describes them as having "the character of the Arabian breed as
decidedly as can be expected where fifteen sixteenths of the blood are
Arabian, and they are fine specimens of that breed; but both in their
color and in the hair of their manes they have a striking resemblance
to the quagga." The description of the stripes visible on their coats
is careful and circumstantial, but the evidence of the nature of the mane
is less convincing: "Both their manes are black; that of the filly is
short, stiff, and stands upright, and Sir Gore Ouseley's stud groom
alleged that it never was otherwise. That of the colt is long, but so
stiff as to arch upward and to hang clear of the sides of the neck, in
which circumstance it resembles that of the hybrid."
This is the classical, we might almost say the test, case of telegony:
the offspring resembled not so much the sire as an earlier mate of the
dam. The facts related tended to confirm the popular view, and that
view is widely spread. Arab breeders act on the belief, and it is so
strongly implanted in the miuds of certain English breeders that they
make a point of mating their mares first with stallions having a good
pedigree, so that their subsequent progeny may benefit by its influence,
even though poorly bred sires are subsequently resorted to.
The evidence of Lord Morton's mare convinced Darwin of the
existence of telegony; after a careful review of the case he says "there
can be no doubt that the quagga affected the character of the offspring
subsequently got by the black Arabian horse." Darwin, however, lat-
terly came to the conclusion that telegony only occurred rarely, and
some years before his death expressed the opinion that it was "a very
occasional phenomenon." Agassiz believed in telegony. He was
strongly of the opinion "that the act of fecundation is not an act which
is limited in its effects, but that it is an act which affects the whole
system, the sexual system especially; and in the sexual system the ovary
to be impregnated hereafter is so modified by the first act that later im-
pregnations do not efface that first impression."
Romanes also believed that telegony occasionally occurred. He
paid a good deal of attention to the matter, commenced experiments in
the hope of settling the question, and corresponded at length on this
subject with professional and amateur breeders and fanciers. The result
of his investigations led him to the conclusion "that the phenomenon
is of much less frequent occurrence than is generally supposed. Indeed,
it is so rare that I doubt whether it takes place in more than one or two
per cent of cases." A recent controversy in the Contemporary Review
shows us that Mr. Herbert Spencer is a firm upholder of telegony, and
that he has a theory of his own as to the mode in which it is brought
about. He suggests that some 'germ-plasm' passes from the embryo
into the mother and becomes a permanent part of her body, and that
this is diffused throughout her whole structure until it affects, among
