THE PENYCUIE EXPERIMENTS. 129
other organs, the reproductive glands. This view, which in some
respects recalls the pangenesis of Darwin, is intermediate between the
saturation and the infection hypothesis. Professor Ewart refers to it
as indirect infection.
Weismann, to whom we owe the term telegony, came to consider
the facts for and against its existence in connection with his well-
known inquiry into the inheritance of acquired characters. If telegony
be true, there is no need to look further for a clear case of the in-
heritance of a character which has been acquired during the lifetime
of the parent. The quagga-ness — if one may be permitted to use such
an expression — of Lord Morton's mare was acquired when she was put
to the quagga or shortly afterward, and was transmitted to her foals.
A clearer case of a character acquired during lifetime and transmitted to
offspring could not be imagined. Weismann does not absolutely deny
the possibility of the existence of telegony, but he would like more
evidence. In the Contemporary Review he writes, "I must say that to
this day, and in spite of the additional cases brought forward by Spencer
and Romanes, I do not consider that telegony has been proved." And
further: "I should accept a case like that of Lord Morton's mare as
satisfactory evidence if it were quite certainly beyond doubt. But that
is by no means the case, as Settegast has abundantly proved." He
would, in fact, refer the case to reversion, and quotes Settegast to the
effect that every horse breeder is well aware that the cases are not rare
when colts are born with stripes which recall the markings of a quagga
or zebra. We shall return to this point later.
A considerable number of German breeders support the contention
of Weismann that telegony is as yet unproved, and it may be pointed
out that in Germany, on the whole, breeders have had a more scientific
education than in England, and that in that country science is regarded
with less aversion or contempt than is usually the case among so-called
practical men in England. We may mention one more case of an ex-
perienced breeder who was equally skeptical — the late Sir Everett
Millais, who was, as is well known, an authority of great weight in the
matter of dog-breeding. He writes as follows, in a lecture entitled Two
Problems of Reproduction: "I may further adduce the fact that in a
breeding experience of nearly thirty years' standing, during which I
have made all sorts of experiments with pure-blood dams and wild
sires, and returned them afterward to pure sires of their own breeds,
T have never seen a case of telegony, nor has my breeding stock suffered.
I may further adduce the fact that I have made over fifty experiments
for Professor Romanes to induce a case of telegony in a variety of
animals — dogs, ducks, hens, pigeons, etc. — but I have hopelessly failed,
as has every single experimenter who has tried to produce the
phenomenon."
