238 SNODGRASS AMD HELLER
Range. Galapagos Archipelago: Chatham, Hood, Seymour,
James, Albemarle, Narboro, Tower, Wenman and Culpepper. Coast
of Peru and Malpelo Island.
This species was first reported by the Venus from Monterey, Cali-
fornia. Presumably this is a mistake through confusion of labels, for
on the same cruise the Venus collected at the Galapagos and should
have gotten the gull there where it is abundant.
It is a common bird of the Galapagos, frequenting nearly all the
islands. We found it in December specially abundant at Wenman and
Culpepper. Large numbers of these birds were nesting on the cliffs
of the small islet lying near the main island of Wenman. Apparently
they nest only on the cliffs, for none was found on the upper surface of
the island where many boobies and frigate birds were nesting. It
is an extremely noisy species. As the birds sit on the cliffs they
utter shrill elongated notes having a sort of weary tone to them. They
often vary this sound by breaking up the first or the last part into a
series of closely connected chattering notes. At other times they open
the mouth widely and make a harsh guttural sound, consisting of one
note repeated several times in quick succession. This sound differs
from the reiterated one accompanying the continuous notes in
being much less guttural and in having a flatter tone and a pitch
about the same as the continuous shrill part. The birds utter some or
all of these sounds almost continually, and when many are together they
make a great deal of noise. They utter the same notes while
flying.
The bird lays a single egg on a ledge of the cliff, constructing no
nest. Two specimens of eggs have a light yellowish-brown ground
color, and are blotched with a few large purplish-brown paler spots,
and darker, smaller ones of dark brown. The markings are evenly
scattered about over the surface, and are much more numerous on one
than on the other. In shape they are ovate and measure 65 x 48 and
68x45.
We were at Albemarle Island from January i till January 20 be-
fore we saw any individuals of this species. On the latter date we
took one at Tagus Cove ; after this we saw several here every day, and
in February they became common.
We have four specimens from Culpepper, Wenman and Albemarle.
Genus Sterna Linnaeus.
Sterna LINN^US, Syst. Nat., ed. x, I, p. 137, 1758.
Range. Cosmopolitan. Galapagos Archipelago.
