BIRDS 331
in April and on Abingdon, Bindloe and Tower in June. This
shows that with the adults there is a moult after the breeding
season.
The adult females resemble those of G.fuliginosa and G.fortis
in color of plumage, but the bill is generally more or less pale below.
Females taken in April and June are moulting; the one taken on
Narboro in March is not.
All of the young birds in the collection except one were taken in
June. All of these, except one male from Tower, are in Stage II.
The one that is not is in a condition between Stages IV and V ; the
upper mandible is black ; the lower mandible is black on the sides,
yellowish below. One young female from Narboro was taken in
January. It has the plumage of the adult, but the lower mandible
is pinkish-yellow.
A nest of this species containing a set of five eggs was secured on
Narboro April 5. It was placed a few feet above the ground in the
forks of a small bush. In shape it resembles the nests of other Geo-
spizce already described. It is composed exteriorly of plant stems in-
terwoven with lichens and a few grasses, and is lined scantily with
bark fibers, finer grasses and a few lichens. The height of the nest
is one hundred and fifty millimeters, its width one hundred and sixty,
the depth of the interior one hundred and twenty, and the diameter of
the entrance five.
The eggs have a pale greenish-white ground color, with a few
grayish shell marks and numerous brownish blotches, heaviest about
the larger end. Dimensions: 23 x 17.5, 23 x 17, 23.5 x 17, 23.5 x
17, 23.5 x 17.
The song of this species was not often heard. One bird was ob-
served singing at James Bay on James Island. The song had a very
pleasing sound, differing considerably from the ordinary Geospiza
notes. It may be represented as follows: teuw ~e It-leur.
The first greatly prolonged syllable was indistinctly divided into two
parts, the second one with the ^-sound being the part specially pro-
longed. The sound of the first syllable was smooth and continuous,
but the second syllable was abruptly different from the preceding. It
was slightly prolonged, had a very pure tone, and ended with a rising
inflection.
The following table shows that the specimens from Narboro have a
somewhat smaller bill and smaller wing than most of the others.
More specimens from this island might indicate a separate subspecies
for Narboro.
