BIRDS 333
67. GEOSPIZA DEBILIROSTRIS Ridgway.
Gcospizadebilirostris'9j.VGWtCi t Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xvn, p. 363, i894,and
xix, p. 533, 1896 (James Island); Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., 50, Pt. I, p.
508, 1901. ROTHSCHILD ANDHARTERT, Novit. Zool. , vi, p. 163, 1899.
Range. James Island.
This species is slightly larger than G. fuliginosa, the wing of
adult males measuring, according to Rothschild and Hartert, sev-
enty-one to seventy- three millimeters. The basal depth of the bill
does not exceed ten and one-half millimeters and is generally less
than ten, while the culmen is about sixteen. The bill is, hence, but
slightly larger than the bill of G. fuliginosa difficilis. On the other
hand, the size of the bill and wing in G. debilirostris is identical with
the measurements of smaller specimens of G. septentrionalis and the
two species are separable only by the color of the under tail coverts,
which, in the second named species, are of a distinct chestnut tone.
Hence, in shape of the bill G. debilirostris is intermediate between G.
fuliginosa dijficilis and G. septentrionalis, and therefore between the
former genera Geospiza and Cactornis. It is probable that if more
specimens of G. debilirostris could be examined the size of the bill
would be found to intergrade with that of G. f. dijficilis. The dif-
ference in length of wing, however, is considerable, so that it is pos-
sible that this may be found a specific character.
We have two immature specimens taken in April at James Bay, on
James Island, that we refer to this species.
68. GEOSPIZA SEPTENTRIONALIS (Rothschild and Hartert).
Geospiza scandens septentrionalis ROTHSCHILD AND HARTERT, Novit. Zool.,
vi, p. 165, 1899 (Wenman and Culpepper Islands). RIDGWAY, Bull.
U. S. Nat. Mus., 50, Pt. i, p. 510, 1901.
Range. Wenman and Culpepper.
This form is more distinct from those nearly related to it than was in-
dicated by its describers. The bill in the smallest billed specimen is not
different from that of the last species, G. debilirostris, and on the other
hand the bills of the larger specimens intergrade in size with those of
the next species, G. scandens. In shape the bill resembles more nearly
than does that of any other species the beak of G. conirostris propin-
qua. One Culpepper specimen has an unusually large bill, the cul-
men measures eighteen millimeters, the width at the base is seven
and three tenths millimeters, the greatest depth at the base nine and
one half millimeters. "The smallest billed specimen of G. c. propin-
qua has a culmen of eighteen and one half millimeters. The width
