336
SNODGRASS AND HELLER
invariably characterizing birds of the age of Stage II of the other sub-
genera.
69. THE GEOSPIZA SCANDENS SERIES.
The variation in the shape and size of the bill in this series amounts
to but little. We begin with the smallest billed variety which follows
naturally G. septentrional is, and end with the largest billed form, G.
scandens rothschildi, which leads easily into G. conirostris pro-
pinqua, and this into the again conical billed form, G. conirostris
conirostris.
The plumage of the varieties of G. scandens differs from that of
any of the forms so far described in that the adult females and the
young present a strongly melanistic phase. Adult females instead of
being pale brown spotted forms as in G.fuliginosa and G.fortis
are continuously dusky over the back, head, and throat, corresponding
with Stage V of immature males of G. fuliginosa instead of with
Stage III as do the adult females of this species. Young birds of
both sexes soon after leaving the nest acquire the same dusky plumage of
the adult females except that they have the rufous borders to the wing
coverts characteristic of birds of their age. The varieties from Abing-
don and Bindloe present the maximum of this melanistic tendency in
the female and young reached by any forms of the species. The next
species, however, G. conirostris, is still blacker in these forms and
represents the farthest advance toward complete melanism attained by
the genus.
The forms now included under the species G. scandens were regarded
by Gould as constituting a distinct genus, Cactornis. The intergra-
dations at each end with other forms, however, are, as has already been
recognized by Ridgway and by Rothschild and Hartert, unbroken.
Rothschild and Hartert regarded Camarhynchus pallida as being
intermediate between the genera Camarkynckus and Geospiza. This
may be true of the bill, but, as we have already shown, the plumage
of C. pallida separates it widely from any species of Geospiza, and
especially from those which it most resembles in the shape of the bill.
690. GEOSPIZA SCANDENS SCANDENS (Gould).
Cactornis scandens GOULD, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., p. 7, 1837 (James Island) ;
Zool. Voy. Beagle, Birds, p. 104, pi. 42, 1841.
f Cactornis assimilis GOULD, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., p. 7, 1837 (? Charles
Island according to Rothschild and Hartert, Bindloe Island according to
Gould which cannot be correct) ; Zool. Voy. Beagle, Birds, p. 105, pi.
43, 1841.
