BIRDS 239
6. STERNA FULIGINOSA Gmelin.
Sterna fiilginosa GMELIN, Syst. Nat., I, p. 605, 1788. ROTHSCHILD AND
HARTERT, Novit. Zool., vi, p. 191, 1899 (Culpepper and Wenman
Islands, Galapagos).
Range. Tropical and subtropical shores everywhere. In the
eastern Pacific : Revillagigedo, Clipperton and Cocos Islands, west
coast of Mexico, west coast of South America, Galapagos Archi-
pelago.
Reported by Rothschild and Hartert as taken by the Harris expedi-
tion at Wenman and Culpepper. We observed it at these islands in
December, but did not secure any specimens.
Genus Anous Stephens.
Anous STEPHENS in Shaw's Gen. Zool., xni, p. 139, 1826.
Range. Intertropical. Galapagos Islands.
7. ANOUS STOLIDUS GALAPAGENSIS (Sharpe).
Megalopterus stolidus GOULD, Zool. Voy. Beagle, in, Birds, p. 146, 1841
(Galapagos).
Anous galapagensis SHARPE, Phil. Trans., CLXVIII, p. 469, 1879 (Galapa-
gos). RIDGWAY, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xix, p. 642, 1896.
Anous stolidus galapagensis ROTHSCHILD AND HARTERT, Novit. Zool., vi, p.
191, 1899.
Range. Galapagos Archipelago: Charles, Hood, Chatham, Bar-
rington, Seymour, Duncan, James, Albemarle, Narboro, Abingdon,
Bindloe, Tower, Wenman and Culpepper.
This is a very abundant species throughout the archipelago. It is
very similar to A. stolidus ridgwayi Anthony of Cocos and Clipperton
Islands, but differs from this subspecies in being slightly darker and
in having a more dusky tone to the back and upper tail coverts, and
also in having the gray of the upper part of the head darker. One of
the Cocos specimens in our collection, however, has the tone of this
color indistinguishable from that of the Galapagos specimens. The
under parts also of A. s. galapagensis are darker, having a more
dusky shade.
Our collection contains three adult males and two adult females, all
taken in January.
At Tagus Cove, Albemarle, these birds were very abundant about
the high cliffs facing the ocean. They began to mate about January
21 and on the first of February we found eggs. Each bird lays a
single egg. The nests were placed in holes in the faces of the tufa
cliffs about the cove, and were often so low that thev could be reached
