338 SNODGRASS AND HELLER
frequently than the last resembled teur'-ivee-ivee, teur'-wee-ivee, teur'-
ivee--wee. In each set the first syllable carried the accent and was
separated from the second by a longer interval than that between the
second and the third. Many were heard uttering a song sounding like
bur' -tee-tee-tee, bur' -tee-tee-tee.
The species was about as abundant on Charles as on James, but was
found much nearer the coast.
6 9 . GEOSPIZA SCANDENS FATIGATA (Ridgway).
Geospiza fatigata RIDGWAY, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xvn, p. 293, 1895 (Inde-
fatigable Island), and xix, p. 539, 1896 ; Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., 50, Pt.
i, p. 511, 1901.
Geospiza barringtoni RIDGWAY, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xvn, p. 361, 1894
(Barrington Island), and xix, p. 541, 1896.
Geospiza scandens fatigata ROTHSCHILD AND HARTERT, Novit. Zool., p, vi.
164, 1899.
Range. Indefatigable, Seymour, Barrington, Chatham, Duncan,
Jervis and Albemarle.
This form differs from G. s. scandens in the slightly larger bill.
We have adult specimens from only Seymour and Barrington ; the two
sets are indistinguishable from each other. Immature specimens from
Seymour, Indefatigable and Albemarle are apparently the same, but
those from Chatham have the bill considerably shorter and thicker,
more as in the young of G. s. abingdoni.
The adult females of this species are much darker than females of
G. fuliginosa, G. forth, etc. The back, top and sides of the head
and the throat are continuously dusky. The spots of the breast and
abdomen are dark dusky brown. The collection contains six adult
females, all of which are colored thus and absolutely duplicate the
color of males in Stage IV of G.fuliginosa and the G. fortis mag-
nirostris series.
Young specimens of both sexes taken in April vary in plumage
from Stage I to Stage III of G.fuliginosa, etc., except that they all
have the wide rufous bands on the wing coverts, indicating, together
with the date, that they are birds of the same season. The bills of
all are dusky above, yellow below. The collection contains three im-
mature specimens from Iguana Cove, Albemarle, taken in June. One
is a male, whose plumage is entirely dusky except for pale tips to the
feathers of the abdomen, but the bill is blackish only at the base, the
rest being yellow. It has distinct but narrow rufous edgings on the
wing coverts. The other two young specimens, the sex of which is
undetermined, are in the plumage of Stage III, the wing coverts have
