342 SNODGRASS AND HELLER
Hence there is almost a perfect gradation through this subspecies
from the slender billed Cactornis group to the next species, G. coni-
rostris, which ends at the top of the Geospiza series with a bill
again enlarged and conical and with very dark plumage in the adult
female and young.
The remarks on the plumage of G. s. abingdoni apply also to this
form.
This species is not common. All our specimens were taken about
the middle of June. We did not even see any adult individuals.
70. THE GEOSPIZA CONIROSTRIS SERIES.
This species presents probably the greatest variation in the size and
shape of the beak of any of the species of Geospiza. Two apparently
well separated species were formerly described by Ridgway from the
extremes of one subspecies, G. c. conirostris, living on Hood. The
bill in shape resembles that of G. f. fortis, differing from it at one
end of the series, mainly in being larger. The species comprises two
subspecies, of which G. c. conirostris of Hood has the larger and more
conical beak, resembling in shape that of G. f. fortis; while the
other, G. c. propinqua of Tower and Culpepper, has a more slender
beak resembling in shape that of G. septentrionalis of Culpepper and
in both shape and size in some cases that of G. scandens rothschildi of
Bindloe. The size of the bill of an average specimen measures as fol-
lows : Culmen 22, gonys 1 1.5, width of bill at base 12, depth at base
16.5. The variations are as follows: Culmen 19 to 24, gonys 10 to
14, width of bill at base 10 to 13.5, depth at base 13 to 18. All of
these variations in size occur within the subspecies G. c. conirostris,
but the bill of G. c. propinqua averages smaller than that of G. c.
conirostris.
The plumage of this species presents the farthest advance toward
complete melanism, i. e., of both sexes and all ages, attained by any
species of Geospiza. It reaches a stage farther in the females and
young than it does in the last species. The adult females have a
greater amount of dusky on them than do males of G. fuliginosa, G.
fortis, etc., in Stage IV, since the belly, instead of being mostly pale,
is heavily streaked with dark brown. The back, head, throat and
breast are continuously blackish-brown, except that the feathers of the
back have slight brownish edgings. The young soon after leaving the
nest resemble the females.
The fact that the beaks of the smallest billed individuals of this
species are so close in shape and size to those of the largest billed in-
