BIRDS 345
Geospiza conirostris conirostris ROTHSCHILD AND HARTERT, Novit. Zool.,
vi, p. 158, 1899 (Hood Island).
Range. Hood and Gardner near Hood.
The collection contains sixteen adult males mostly in pure black
plumage. One bird, however, has the primaries almost reddish-brown,
contrasting strongly with the rest of the plumage including the ter-
tiaries. This bird is moulting and besides the brown wing feathers it
has a few brown feathers scattered about over the back. One male
having a black bill is in a plumage intermediate between Stages IV
and V of G. fuliginosa.
Adult Females. The adult female differs greatly from the fe-
males of other species in being as black as males of other species
in Stage V. Upper parts blackish or blackish-brown, feathers
of the middle of the back with grayish or light brown edgings.
Primaries and secondaries brown, edged with rusty, in strong contrast
with the black of the dorsum. Tertiaries black, edged with buffy
gray. Rectrices sooty brown, sometimes edged with rusty. Sides
and lower part of head, throat and breast black or blackish-brown.
Feathers of lower .breast, abdomen, sides and crissum with sooty
brown central areas and wide buffy gray margins, giving a strongly
streaked appearance to these parts. Bill blackish-brown above, paler
brown below, blackish at tip and base. Feet blackish-brown.
There are four immature males and three immature females in the
collection. The bills are black above, but are almost entirely pale
below, the lower mandible having black only about the base and at
the tip. These birds are evidently, judging from the condition of
the bill and the general appearance of the feathers, but recently
from the nest, i. e., they correspond in age with Stage I of G. fulig-
inosa and G. fortis. They are in a plumage, however, very sim-
ilar to that of the adult female except that they have certain char-
acteristic marks of the young. The head all around, back, throat and
breast are black or blackish-brown, the feathers of the back are edged
more or less with buff. The wings are sooty brown. The middle
and greater wing coverts are widely edged with rusty buff, a character
belonging only to Stage I of other species. The abdomen, sides and
under tail coverts are heavily streaked with blackish or sooty brown
on the central parts of the feathers, the marginal parts of the feathers
being buffy white.
This species was abundant on Hood in May. Their song was
considerably different from that of other species of Geospiza and in
itself presented a large amount of variation. One bird was heard sing-
