240 SNODGRASS AND HELLER
from a boat. The nest was in all cases a scant affair, consisting of a
few twigs laid in the bottom of the cavity. The eggs are slightly
elongate-ovate. The color is creamy white, marked with a few small
light and dark blotches of brown, most numerous about the large end ;
one egg having the rest of the surface almost plain. Two specimens
measure: 50 X 34 and 48 x 35. We found them nesting on James
Island in April.
Family DIOMEDEHXE.
Genus Diomedea Linnaeus.
Diomedea LINNAEUS, Syst. Nat., ed. x, I, p. 132, 1758.
Range. Entire Pacific Ocean and southern seas in general. Gala-
pagos Archipelago.
8. DIOMEDEA IRRORATA Salvin.
Diomedea exulans WOLF, Ein Besuch auf den Galapagos Inseln, p. 13, 1879.
Two kinds of Albatrosses HABEL, Trans. Zool. Soc. Lond., ix, p. 458, 1876.
Diomedea exulans and D. nigripes RIDGWAY, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xix,
p. 646, 1896.
Diomedea irrorata SALVIN, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., p. 430, 1883 (Callao,
Peru) ; Cat. Birds Brit. Mus., xxv, p. 445, pi. 8, 1896. ROTHSCHILD,
Bull. Brit. Ornith. Club, vn, p. 51, 1898. ROTHSCHILD AND HARTERT,
H Novit. Zool., vi, p. 192, 1899.
Range. Galapagos Archipelago and coast of Peru. The home
of this species appears to be restricted to the eastern end of Hood
Island. Albatrosses have long been known to exist at the Galapagos
Islands, but the specimens brought back by the Harris expedition in
1898 were the first to be certainly identified. They were determined
by Rothschild and Hartert to be Diomedea irrorata, a species de-
scribed in 1883 by Salvin from a specimen taken at Callao, Peru,
evidently a wanderer from the Galapagos, for no others have been
taken on the mainland.
Albatrosses are frequently to be seen among the islands of the archi-
pelago, but they breed only at the eastern end of Hood Island. There
is here a large rookery which has long been known to whalers and
made to supply eggs for eating. At the time of our visit to Hood
Island in May the albatrosses were nesting. The nests were scattered
about on the ground in open places among the bushes, averaging
about twenty-five feet apart. A few of the birds were in pairs,
apparently not yet nesting ; but most of them were sitting on one egg
each. When disturbed they attempted to frighten away the intruder
by loudly snapping the beak.
We have seven eggs taken in May. They are somewhat elongate-
