BIRDS 349
Certhidea is peculiar to the Galapagos Archipelago and is known
from every island of the group. We have only a small number of
specimens, seventy six in all, but the genus has been well discussed
by Rothschild and Hartert and we make only a few changes in the
disposition of the species as given by these authors. There are eight
varieties distinguishable, comprised under two species C. olivacea
and C. cinerascens, characterized as their names imply, one by an
olivaceous color and the other by an ashy tone.
Nothing is certainly known of the nidification and eggs of Cer-
thidea. We shot a female of C. olivacea olivacea at Iguana Cove,
Albemarle, from a nest containing three eggs. The nest was exactly
like that of Geospiza fuliginosa and the eggs were identical in size
and coloration with those of the same species (see p. 310). Hence,
since we have no other examples we hesitate in ascribing this nest to
Certhidea.
The Certhidece are insectivorous, differing thus from most of the
Geospiza which live on seeds, but the lowest member of the latter
genus, G. heliobates, feeds entirely on insects.
The song in some cases resembles the ordinary songs of Geospiza,
and there is nothing distinctive in their habits. The birds are to be
found from the shore to the tops of the highest mountains.
The color of the young is very similar to that of the adult, the only
particular specialization of the adults is the rufous or chestnut throat in
the males of C. olivacea. The following is a description of a typical
immature bird. The characters apply to any variety of C. olivacea.
Immature Male and Female (C. olivacea'}. Above almost uni-
form dull olivaceous, the feathers of the head with dusky centers.
Wing and tail feathers dusky brown, both remiges and rectrices edged
with the color of the back, tipped with gray. The middle and greater
wing coverts broadly edged in most cases with bright rufous. Below
pale buffy whitish with a slight olive tinge, brownish-buff along the
sides. Bill brownish above, pale below.
By a comparison of this description with the descriptions of the
young in the first plumage of the subgenera Cactospiza and Cama-
rhynchus of the genus Geospiza, it will be seen that the two almost
duplicate each other (see pp. 277; 284). Furthermore, the rufous
wing bands are characteristic of the first plumage of all the Geospizcz.
This general resemblance in color between the young of these two
genera is, in fact, so striking that it is very suggestive of an actual
relationship existing between them. If such should be the case,
Certhidea would be lower than any of the Geospiztz, since the adults
