350 SNODGRASS AND HELLER
do not go beyond the condition of " Stage I" in Geospiza (see p.
276), being thus nearest to the lowest member of the Geospiza series,
G. ( Cactospiza) pallida.
73. THE CERTHIDEA OLIVACEA SERIES.
73. CERTHIDEA OLIVACEA OLIVACEA (Gould).
Certhidea olivacea GOULD, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., p. 7, 1837 ; Zool. Voy.
Beagle, in, Birds, p. 106, 1841. RIDGWAY, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus.,
xix, p. 498, 1896; Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., No. 50, Pt. n, p. 763, 1902.
Certhidea salvini RIDGWAY, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xvn, p. 358, 1894, and
xix, p. 500, 1896 (Indefatigable Island).
Certhidea albemarlei RIDGWAY, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xvn, p. 360, 1894,
and xix, p. 500, 1896 (Albemarle Island).
Certhidea olivacea olivacea ROTHSCHILD AND HARTERT, Novit. Zool., vi, p.
148, 1899.
Range. Indefatigable, Duncan, Jervis, James, Albemarle and
Narboro.
Our collection contains of this species twenty two specimens taken
in January, February and March at Tagus Cove and Iguana Cove on
Albemarle; two from Narboro in March and April ; two from James
in April ; and seven taken in April on Duncan. There are in the lot
males with rufous throats from all the islands except Duncan.
The following good description of an adult male in full dress is
given by Rothschild and Hartert: "Upper side pale olive, pileum
and hind neck more olive gray, rump and upper tail coverts lighter
and more yellowish-brownish ; wings and tail dusky brown, outwardly
edged with light olive, inner webs of remiges edged with whitish-gray ;
upper wing coverts broadly bordered with light reddish-brown, under
wing coverts white, strongly washed with buff and yellowish-cinna-
mon; short superciliary line, extending to about four millimeters
beyond the eye ; chin, throat and fore neck bright rufous cinnamon ;
remainder of under surface creamy buff , with an olive tinge; sides
washed with olive brown ; breast with more or less concealed spots of
bright rufous cinnamon ; under tail coverts washed with rufous cin-
namon." (Novit. Zool., vi, p. 148, 1899.)
The species was not abundant on Albemarle at either Tagus Cove
or at Iguana Cove, but was more numerous at the latter place than at
the former. The birds are generally rather quiet. At Iguana Cove
they sang a song resembling titfiil-ee, tw'ul-ee, generally uttering two
sets in succession as one song. They uttered also a sound like twee-
twee. At Tagus Cove the species was rare everywhere but was found
m the thick brush at the base and on the side of the mountain back of
