358 SNODGRASS AND HELLER
It is more solidly constructed than the last, being composed outwardly
of closely woven plant fibers, stems, cotton and egg cocoons of spiders.
The interior is deep and lined with fine grass, and feathers of the
Galapagos duck (Pcecilonetta}.
The one egg preserved is much like those of the other set in shape
and coloration. It has a creamy ground color and is blotched,
mostly in the form of a wreath about the larger end with chestnut,
umber and lavender-gray. The specimen measures 17 x 14.
The notes of this bird are much like those of any other Dendroica.
One common song resembled tu-wer, tu-ivee, tu-wee-u, uttered rather
rapidly. Another sounded like tul-tivee-tivee-tivee. The first syllable
of this was somewhat prolonged and separated from the second by a
space greater than that between the others.
We have eighteen adult specimens of this species from Albemarle,
Narboro, James, Seymour, Charles, Chatham, Bindloe and Wenman.
We observed it on all the other islands except Jervis which we did not
visit.
Family TROGLODYTIDJE.
Genus Nesomimus Ridgway.
Nesomimus RIDGWAY, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xu, p. 102, 1890, footnote.
(Type, Orpheus melanotis Gould.)
Generic Characters. (From Ridgway.) "Similar to Mimus
Boie, but bill longer and more compressed basally, and tarsus much
longer (nearly twice as long as middle toe instead of only about one
third longer)."
Whether these characters may be considered sufficient for generic
distinction or not, the group is certainly a natural one and it is most
convenient to recognize it as such by a generic name.
Nesomimus is peculiar to the Galapagos Archipelago where it has
been taken on every island except Duncan. It is now apparently extinct
on Charles, but specimens were taken on this island by Darwin.
76. NESOMIMUS TRIFASCIATUS (Gould).
Orpheus trifasciatus GOULD, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., p. 27, 1837 (Charles
Island).
Mimus trifasciatus GRAY, Zool. Voy. Beagle, in, Birds, p. 62, pi. 16, 1841
(Charles Island).
Nesomimus trifasciatus RIDGWAY, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xix, p. 483, 1896.
ROTHSCHILD AND HARTERT, Novit. Zool., vi, p. 143, 1899 (Gardner
Island, near Charles).
Range. Gardner (near Charles). Extinct on Charles.
This species was taken on Charles by Darwin, but has not been seen
