BIRDS 359
by any subsequent collectors on this island. It was taken on the small
Gardner Island, near Charles, by the Harris expedition in 1897.
Rothschild and Hartert give the following description of JV. trifas-
ciatus: "This species is easily recognizable by its large size and
broad blackish-brown band across the chest, interrupted and concealed
in the middle. There are, however, not two bands, as one might ex-
pect from Ridgway's 4 key.' The wing coverts have very conspicuous
large white spots. The wing of the male is 128-130 mm. long, the
tail 123 (about most specimens being in worn plumage with the
tails much abraded), tarsus 40, exposed culmen 26-27 mm - The
same measurements in the female are: Wing 116120, tail 115 (ap-
proximately), culmen 25-26, tarsus 3840 mm. 4 Iris seal-brown,
tarsi, feet and bill blackish.'" (Novit. Zool., vi, p. 143, 1899.)
We obtained no specimens of this species, but we did not visit the
Gardner Island in the neighborhood of Charles.
77. NESOMIMUS MACDONALDI Ridgway.
Nesomimus macdonaldi RIDGWAY, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus. , xii, p. 103, 1890,
fig. i (Hood Island), and xix, p. 484, 1896. .ROTHSCHILD AND HAR-
TERT, Novit. Zool., vi, p. 143, 1899.
Range. Hood and the neighboring Gardner Island.
This species departs widely from all the other species of Nesomimus
in the great size and curvature of the bill. The culmen varies from
33 to 37 in length, an excess of 6 over the culmen of N. trifasciatus.
Otherwise its closest relationship is with this species on account of the
brownish-buff band that crosses the breast. It is also related to N.
adamsi of Chatham through the spots on the sides of the breast, and,
in fact, stands intermediate between N. trifasciatus and N. adamsi.
Description of a Typical Specimen. (No. 5308, adult male,
Leland Stanford Jr. University Museum. Hood, May 15, 1899.)
Above dusky brown and brownish-gray, the former color occupying
the central areas of the feathers, the latter the margins; palest on the
rump where the dark central areas of the feathers are the least promi-
nent. Wings and tail blackish-brown, the quills narrowly edged
with buffy grayish, the coverts with wide whitish margins, forming
three poorly defined bands across the wing. The rectrices with very
indistinct pale areas on the inner margins of the tips of the inner webs.
Postocular region of head grayish-buff, continuous with an indistinct
superciliary line of the same color. Auriculars blackish anteriorly,
buffy posteriorly. Lores black. An indistinct blackish subocular
line from the lores and a similar maxillary stripe on the side of the
