BIRDS 361
ters. Rump paler brownish, with indistinct darker central areas to
the feathers. Feathers of top of head with wide grayish-brown mar-
gins, narrow, elongate, dusky central parts. Hind neck with a light
brownish-gray collar. A pale supraorbital stripe of the same color
as the nuchal collar reaching to the latter from back of the nostril.
Lesser and middle wing coverts light brown with pale brownish-
gray edgings. Greater wing coverts darker brown with narrow buffy
edgings and wider ashy tips. Primaries dusky brown with narrow
edgings of pale grayish -brown ;tips with slightly wider edgings of
ashy. Secondaries lighter brown with narrow pale brown edgings.
Tail dusky brown, feathers with very narrow pale brownish borders,
ashy toward the bases. Under surface of feathers paler, slaty. All
the rectrices except the middle pair with a terminal spot of white on
the inner web; spots of outermost feathers largest, about twenty
millimeters in length, decreasing successively in size on the other feath-
ers toward the middle ; spots of feathers next the middle pair always
very small, gone entirely when these feathers are much worn.
Lores, suborbital and auricular regions brownish-black. A white
line just below edge of under eyelid. A narrow dusky malar stripe.
Entire under parts dull whitish. Sides and flanks with dark brown
streaks. Sides of lower breast with a few rather large spots of brown
on the centers of the feathers ; these spots rounded in outline behind,
emarginate anteriorly. A slight brownish tone on feathers of lower
part of breast, forming an indistinct band connecting the spotted
areas of each side.
In coloration, especially in the presence of the spots of the sides of
the breast, this form resembles the Hood race JV. macdonaldi more
than it does any other. The spots in the Chatham form, however,
are not invariably present ; in one specimen that we have they are en-
tirely absent. The species is separated specifically from N. macdon-
aldi by the smaller size of the bill.
This species is very closely related also to the form inhabiting Inde-
fatigable, but is always distinguishable from the latter by the pres-
ence of the maxillary stripes. In the color of the back JV. adamsi
is paler than any other form of Nesomimus on the archipelago, but
in this respect it intergrades with N. melanotis dierythru*. It is in-
termediate between the forms having spotted breasts and those whose
breasts are plain, and thus has given rise to two lines of differentia-
tion. Along one line the dark maxillary stripes have been retained
and the back has taken on a dusky rather than a brown tone ; along
the other the brown tone of the back has been retained but the maxil-
