BIRDS 367
which they are specifically separated by the color of the top of the
head and the back.
So. THE NESOMIMUS MELANOTIS SERIES.
This group, as already stated, differs from the last, JV. persona-
tus, in having the central areas of the feathers of the back distinctly
brown and not blackish. It inhabits Barrington, Indefatigable,
Jervis, James, Albemarle, Narboro and Wenman. It has probably
been separately derived from N. adamsi of Chatham. It comprises
four subspecies. We describe these in the order of their apparent rela-
tionships, rather than according to priority of names. The name
melanotis was first given to specimens of this species from James.
8o. NESOMIMUS MELANOTIS DIERYTHRUS Heller
and Snodgrass.
Nesomimus melanotis (in part) GOULD, Voy. Beagle, in, Birds, p. 62, 1841.
RIDGWAY, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xix, p. 489, 1896.
Nesomimus melanotis melanotis (in part) ROTHSCHILD AND HARTERT, Novit.
Zool., vi, p. 145, 1899.
Nesomimus melanotis dierythrus HELLER AND SNODGRASS, The Condor,
Vol. in, No. 3, May, 1901 (Indefatigable and Seymour Islands).
Range. Indefatigable and the Seymours.
This form presents the first departure from the Chatham race along
a line differing from that of the melanistic northern species, N. per-
sonatus, in the retention of the brown color of the upper parts of the
Chatham species, and in the loss, from the beginning, of the dark
maxillary stripes.
Subspecific Characters. Very similar to N. adamsi of Chatham,
differing from it specifically in never possessing any trace of maxillary
stripes. Color of the back brown, averaging darker than on Chatham
specimens; lores and auricular region blacker; never any spots on
sides of breast ; culmen averaging slightly shorter.
If Chatham specimens should be obtained not possessing maxillary
stripes, then it and the Indefatigable form could not be specifically
separated and the Chatham variety would have to be named N. mela-
notis adamsi, since melanotis was the first name given to any of the
brown-backed forms. Although the color of the back intergrades
between the two forms, yet that of the Indefatigable and Seymour
specimens averages distinctly darker, lacking the almost rusty tone
present on the Chatham specimens.
The collection contains two adult males and two adult females from
Indefatigable Island, taken on the part adjoining the Seymour Islands,
