244 SNODGRASS AND HELLER
14. PHAETHON ^ETHEREUS Linna-us.
Phaethon athereus LINNAEUS, Syst. Nat., ed. x, i, p. 134, 1758. RIDGWAY,
Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xix, p. 600, 1896. ROTHSCHILD AND HAR-
TERT, Novit. Zool., vi, p. 1 80, 1899.
Range. Tropical seas in general.
We observed this species all the way from Guadalupe Island off
Lower California to the Galapagos Archipelago. At the latter locality
we found it most abundant at Wenman, Culpepper, Hood and Brattle,
but nowhere did we find it nesting. The Harris expedition report it
as nesting on the eastern end of Hood Island in October.
This is the only species of Phaethon that has been observed at the
Galapagos Islands, although P. rubicaudus is rather common in the
eastern Pacific north of the Galapagos.
Family SULHXE.
Genus Sula Brisson.
Sula BRISSON, Ornithologist, vi, p. 495, 1760.
Range. Temperate and tropical seas.
15. SULA VARIEGATA Tschudi.
Dysporus variegatus TSCHUDI, Fauna Peruana, Ornithologist, p. 313, 1845
(Peru).
Sula cyanops RIDGWAY, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xix, p. 595, 1896 (Galapagos
quoted from Sundevall).
Sula variegata ROTHSCHILD AND HARTERT, Novit. Zool., vi, p. 178, 1899.
Range. Coasts of Chile and Peru. Galapagos Archipelago :
Culpepper, Wenman, Tower, James, Brattle, Charles and Hood.
This species is common on the most northern and most southern
islands of the Archipelago Wenman, Culpepper, Tower and
Hood but seldom visits the central islands. We never saw it at
Tagus Cove, Albemarle, where we spent several months, and at Eliz-
abeth Bay, Albemarle, we saw only a few in February flying over
Perry Isthmus which separates the northern half of Albemarle Island
from the southern half.
The coloration in life of the naked parts of the adults is as follows :
Bill light orange-red, yellowish at the tip and along the commissure ;
skin about the eyes deep greenish-black, a light spot beneath the eye ;
gular sac blackish.
On Culpepper this species was found on the tenth of December
just beginning to nest. A few birds were seen sitting on eggs, but
most of them were in pairs defending nesting sites. The nests con-
sisted merely of slight depressions scraped in the soil.
