246 SNODGRASS AND HELLER
are like those of other species of Sula. They measure 6; x 46,
62 x 44, and 70 x 44, 70 x 46.
We did not find this Sula nesting on Tower when this island was
visited in June. A few of the birds were seen about the northeast
part of the island.
We have four adult specimens of this bird from Culpepper Island,
two from Wenman, one from Tower, and one immature female from
Harrington .
The young of Sula variegata somewhat resemble in general color-
tion the adults of Sula brewsteri and it may be that the birds reported
by Kinberg and by Baur and Adams as the latter species were simply the
immature of S. variegata* For some reason the young of this species is
very rarely seen about the islands. We have one specimen taken at
Barrington Island in May the only immature individual of S. varie-
gata that we saw. There is no authentic record of the occurrence of
S. brewsteri at the Galapagos Archipelago, although it is a common
bird at Cocos Island, which lies about four degrees north and to the
east of the Galapagos.
1 6. SULA PISCATRIX WEBSTERI (Rothschild).
Sula piscator RIDGWAY, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xix, p. 598, 1896 (Gala-
pagos).
Sula websteri ROTHSCHILD, Bull. Brit. Ornith. Club, vn , p. 52, May, 1898
(Clarion Island, Galapagos Islands).
Sula pise atrix websteri ROTHSCHILD AND HARTERT, Novit. ZooL, vi, p. 177,
1899.
Range. Revillagigedo Archipelago. Cocos Island. Galapagos
Archipelago : Culpepper, Wenman, Tower and Hood.
We have four adult specimens in the white plumage, taken in De-
cember from Wenman and Culpepper, and three taken in November
and August from Clarion Island of the Revillagigedo Archipelago.
All of them have the tails mostly dark brownish as described by
Rothschild ; the females do not differ from the males in color. We
have also six immature birds in the brownish plumage taken at Wen-
man and Culpepper in December and at Cocos Island in July, and one
grayish bird taken from Culpepper in December.
The species is easily distinguished at all ages from all other species
of Sula of the eastern Pacific by its bright red feet. In adults there is
a narrow band of red on the bare skin about the base of the upper
mandible and a large quadrate patch of the same color at the base of
each ramus of the lower mandible ; the skin about the eye is blue, with
an elongate spot of pink in it below the eye ; the gular membrane
