BIRDS 249
Our collection contains two adult females and one adult male taken
about Albemarle and Narboro in January, February and March.
In life the bare parts of the bird are colored as follows : bill slate-
blue; bare skin of sides of head and about base of bill gray ish -blue ;
gular sac light blue; iris varying from cream color to straw-color;
tarsus and toes bright pea-green to blue-green, webs blue-green to
indigo ; claws grayish-dusky.
Family PHALACROCORACID^E.
Genus Phalacrocorax Brisson.
Phalacrocorax BRISSON, Ornithologist, vi, p. 511, 1760.
Range Cosmopolitan except Polynesia. Galapagos Archipelago.
1 8. PHALACROCORAX HARRISI Rothschild.
Phalacrocorax harrisi ROTHSCHILD, Bull. Brit. Ornith. Club, vn, p. 52, 1898.
ROTHSCHILD AND HARTERT, Novit. Zool., vi, p. 179, 1899 (Galapagos).
Nannopterum harrisi SHARPE, Gen. and Spec. Birds, p. 235, 1899.
Range. Galapagos Archipelago : Narboro and Albemarle.
This species was first obtained by the Harris expedition. It is sur-
prising that so striking a bird should never have been reported before.
Our collection contains seven specimens from Narboro and Albe-
marle. They all agree with Rothschild's description of the type, but
show in addition a greenish iridescence on the upper parts. The
color below varies considerably. Some of the darkest males from
Narboro are seal brown below. A nesting female from Albemarle is
light tawny on the breast, a little darker on the abdomen. The gular
sac in life is livid- purplish, or brownish-purple; the iris emerald; the
upper mandible black with pale brown tip and tomia ; the lower
mandible light brown with darker tomia ; the feet and webs black,
claws slaty black. The pupil is elliptical with the longer diameter
horizontal.
Occurs abundantly in the surf and on the shore and rocks of Nar-
boro. A few also were found along the shores of Banks Bay and at
Black Bight, Albemarle. The birds are entirely unable to fly.
When on shore they sit in an upright position and often extend the
wings with their planes vertical, somewhat in the manner of vultures
while digesting their food. In the water they have a very graceful
appearance, carrying the neck bent in a very swanlike fashion. The
adults were never heard to make any sound.
The food consists largely of devilfish (Octopus), which the birds
obtain by diving. Some were observed swallowing devilfish more
