BIRDS 265
Coloration of the Naked Parts in Life. Iris seal-brown in the
adult, ochreous-buff in the young ; cere and base of mandible naples
yellow ; upper mandible bluish-brown at the base, blackish at the tip ;
feet and legs maize-yellow, claws blackish.
We have two adult specimens from Albemarle in the dark phase,
and one immature specimen in the tawny phase. We observed the
species frequently on Narboro, but we did not collect any specimens
here. It was seen also on James, Duncan, Indefatigable, Harrington,
Hood, Chatham, Abingdon and Bindloe. It is fairly common
throughout its range but is most numerous along the coast, showing,
however, no preference for any special kind of country. It is equally
abundant on barren stretches of lava and on areas of dense vegetation.
It is extremely tame and will usually come within a few feet of a col-
lector and sometimes closer still if he has any food to offer. The birds
feed principally on the common lizard, Tropidurus, which abounds
on nearly all the islands near the shore. All the specimens examined
contained remains of these lizards. The rarity of this lizard on
Charles, where it is now nearly extinct, may explain the absence of
Buteo from this island. Similarly, the islands of Tower, Wenman
and Culpepper, where the buzzard is lacking are also without repre-
sentatives of Tropidurus. Darwin says that the Buteo feeds on the
young of the land tortoise, Testudo, when just emerging from the
shell. If this is the case, it is probable that they likewise eat the young
of the green sea turtle, Chelone, which breeds abundantly on the
sand beaches.
A nest containing two incubated eggs was found on Bindloe in
June. The nest was situated on a ledge of lava projecting from the
perpendicular side of a canyon ; it was a very bulky affair made of
sticks and twigs and lined with leaves. Both of the parents were in
the dark phase of plumage, which is probably the adult color. Only
one of these eggs was preserved. It is immaculate greenish-white,
about the same color as the eggs of Circus hudsonius (Linn.), and
measures 58 x 44.
Another nest was found in January near Tagus Cove, Albemarle,
situated on a high pinnacle of lava near the middle of a very rough
lava stream. This nest was very large. The height being about three
feet and the basal width nearly as great. It had evidently been used
for many years. A pair of buzzards in dark plumage remained most
of the time in the neighborhood and were presumably the owners.
We never got any eggs from this nest, but the breeding season evidently
does not begin until June.
