BIRDS 273
Range. Same as that of the genus given above. On the Galapa-
gos Archipelago : James, Charles and Chatham.
We did not meet with this species. It is recorded simply as a winter
visitor, but five hundred and fifty miles of ocean is a long distance for
it to traverse accidentally.
Family FRINGILLIDJE.
Genus Geospiza Gould.
Geospiza GOULD, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., p. 5, 1837.
Cactornis GOULD, ibid., p. 6.
Camarhynchus GOULD, ibid., p. 6.
Platyspiza RIDGWAY, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xix, p. 545, 1896.
Cactospiza RIDGWAY, ibid., p. 546.
Range. Peculiar to the Galapagos Archipelago and found on all
of the islands.
We follow Rothschild and Hartert in combining all the Fringillid
species of the Galapagos into one genus, Geospiza. It appears cer-
tain that they have all been derived from one form, and it is a matter
of convenience more than anything else to give them all one name.
Authors have heretofore disregarded the color in relating the species to
one another, and have established different groups on the shape of the
bill alone. The lines thus drawn have been found to break down, but,
as we shall show, four well separated groups can be recognized on a
color basis. These groups are nearly coincident with those that have
been established on the different shapes of the bill, and the types of
the latter each fall into one of the groups as based on the color, so that
the same names may be retained. These groups are : Cactospiza,
Camarhynchus, Geospiza and Cactornis. We include them under
the genus Geospiza as subgenera, but this is making simply an arbi-
trary difference of degree between genera and subgenera.
The members of the genus as a whole present, in the young and
adults, six different phases of plumage. Since these phases occur at
definite periods in the growth of the individual birds they may be
described as stages. The following are brief descriptions of these
stages, which, throughout the discussion of Geospiza, we represent
by the Roman numerals I to VI. Stage I is described in detail under
G. pallida, and Stages II- VI under G.fuliginosa parvula.
Stage I. General color yellowish-olive, darker above, pale below ;
wings dusky, the feathers widely edged with olive ; middle and greater
wing coverts with yellowish rufous edgings. Bill yellowish, darker
above.
