274 SNODGRASS AND HELLER
This stage is characteristic of the young in the first plumage of the
subgenera Cactospiza and Camarhynchus.
Stage II. Plumage brownish, paler below, feathers with darker
centers showing specially as spots on the breast. Two wide, conspicu-
ous rufous wing bands formed on the tips of the middle and greater
wing coverts. Bill either entirely yellowish or yellowish below and
brownish or dusky above. Plumage soft and lax.
Characteristic of the young in the second plumage of Cactospiza
and Camarhynchus, and of the young in the first plumage of Geo-
spiza.
Stage III. Resembles Stage II in color, but differs in lacking
the rufous wing bands, the tips of the wing coverts are gray or
brownish-gray. Plumage compact, not soft and lax. Bill as in Stage
II or entirely dusky.
Characteristic of the adult male and female of Cactospiza, of the
adult female and the young in the third plumage of Camarhynchus,
and of the adult female and young in the second plumage of Geo-
spiza.
Stage IV. Dark brown above, spotted with blackish-brown be-
low, edges of feathers of breast and abdomen whitish. Bill mostly
brownish or black.
Characteristic of immature males in the fourth plumage of Cama-
rhynchus and the third of Geospiza, and of adult females and young
in the first plumage of the lower numbers of Cactornis.
Stage V. Back, head, throat and breast continuously black ;
wings sooty-brown ; abdomen whitish. Bill black.
Characteristic of adult males of Camarhynchus, of immature males
in the fourth plumage of Geospiza, and of adult females and young
of the higher members of Cactornis.
Stage VI. Entirely brownish-black or black, except the edges of
the under tail coverts which are whitish, buffy or chestnut. Bill
black.
Characteristic of adult males of Geospiza and Cactornis.
From the above description it may be seen that the four subgenera
mentioned differ from one another in a very significant manner. The
differences may be tabulated as follows :
A. Adult females in Stage III.
1. Adult males in Stage III Cactospiza.
2. Adult males in Stage V Camarhynchus.
3. Adult males in Stage VI Geospiza.
B. Adult females in Stages IV or V... ...Cactornis.
