BIRDS 275
It will be seen from the above that there is in the genus a regular
progression toward complete melanism, i. e., toward a form in which
both sexes and all ages of the young would be entirely black. Hence,
it appears to us that the color may be taken as the most important fac-
tor in the evolution of the genus. Almost the only other variable
character is the beak. Hence, by plotting with the color variation as
the ordinate and the bill variation as the abscissa, we can arrive at an
approximate scheme of the relationships of the different stibgenera,
species and subspecies of the genus. The diagram on page 276 is
formed in this way. This diagram is made out from the characters of
the males only, except in the upper or Cactornis half of Stage VI, for
in all the others the females remain in Stage III.
The diagram shows that the young of Cactospiza during their
growth pass through Stages I and II while the adults never get beyond
Stage III. The young males of Camarhynchus traverse Stages I, II,
III and IV, arriving by maturity at Stage V. This is their ultimate
condition. The males and females of Geospiza begin at Stage II and
the male goes through all the stages up to Stage VI, which represents
the maximum of blackness attained by any of the Geospizce. The
males of Cactornis are the same when adult as the males of Geospiza,
but both males and females in their growth begin at Stage IV (or go
very rapidly through Stages II and III). The female in this group
reaches Stage V, or a condition similar to it. Hence, the average
amount of blackness in the subgenus Cactornis, considering all the
forms, is greater than in Geospiza, and for this reason we place it
higher in the diagram. This scheme brings G. conirostris coni-
rostris at the top of the entire Geospiza series. The position of the
species in the diagram to the right or to the left of the main vertical line,
indicates the relative slenderness or thickness respectively of the bills.
The position of the species as given in the diagram certainly repre-
sents their degrees of resemblance, but we do not claim that it cer-
tainly represents their natural relationships. We have no way of
determining to what extent convergent evolution has operated in caus-
ing forms to resemble one another. However, in the discussion of
the species and subspecies we have followed the order indicated in the
diagram, working in each direction away from the main vertical line.
Subgenus Cactospiza Ridgway.
Cactospiza RIDGWAY, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xix, p. 546, 1896 (Type, Cac-
tornis pallida Sclater and Salvin).
No black on the plumage at any stage. Sexes similar, and the
young resemble the adults. Color, above brown with dusky centers
