BIRDS 277
to the feathers, below buffy-white spotted with brown on the breast
and on the sides. Bill slender; culmen curved, not greater than
eighteen millimeters, contained one and one third times in the tarsus;
depth of bill about equal to gonys.
The two species at present known under this subgenus without
doubt stand nearer to the ancestral Geospiza than does any other
known member of the genus. The plumage of the male and the fe-
male is the same and is identical with that of young birds of Cama-
rhynchus and Geospiza proper before they have begun to assume the
melanistic phase characteristic of all the higher Geospizce. Young
birds of this subgenus, in the first plumage, have a bright olivaceous
color, a character common to young birds of Cactospiza and Cama-
rhynchus but lost by all the members of Geospiza proper and of Cac-
tornis. The adults reach the brown-spotted stage attained by the young
of the other higher groups in Stage III. Hence, during their life
history, the members of Cactospiza go through Stages I, II and III.
One member of the subgenus, G. heliobates, is an inhabitant exclu-
sively of the mangrove swamps of the archipelago. It might be fanci-
fully supposed that these mangrove swamps were the first vegetation
on the islands and that G. heliobates, or an ancestor of the present
Geospizce resembling it, lived in these swamps until the islands became
elsewhere fit for habitation ; that then some of the birds left the
swamps and became differentiated into the species of Camarhynchus,
Geospiza proper, and Cactornis ; while the others, remaining in the
swamps, retained their primitive plumage, and survive at present as
G. heliobates. The mangrove swamps were, most probably, the first
vegetation of the islands on which they occur, but they are not pres-
ent to any extent anywhere except on the southeast part of Albemarle,
along the shores of the straits between Albemarle and Narboro, and
at Elizabeth Bay, Albemarle. These islands do not by any means
appear to be the oldest of the archipelago and their mangrove swamps
stand on very recent lava. Hence the greater probability is that G.
heliobates has been derived from G. pallida, the member of Cacto-
spiza that inhabits the same areas as the other Geospizce. The two
species differ only in the size of the bill.
53. GEOSPIZA PALLIDA (Sclater and Salvin).
Cactornis pallida SCLATER AND SALVIN, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., p. 323,
1870 (Indefatigable Island).
Cactornis hypoleuca RIDGWAY, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xn, p. 109, 1890
(James Island).
Camarhynchus pallidus RIDGWAY, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xix, p. 565, 1896;
Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., 50, Pt. I, p. 487, 1901.
Proc. Wash. Acad. Sci., January, 1904.
