278 SNODGRASS AND HELLER
Camarhynchus productus RIDGWAY, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xvn, p. 364, 1894
(Albemarle Island) ; Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xix, p. 566, 1896.
Geospiza pallida ROTHSCHILD AND HARTERT, Novit. Zool., vi, p. 165,
1899 (Indefatigable, Jervis, Duncan, James and Albemarle Islands).
Range. Indefatigable, Jervis, Duncan, James and Albemarle.
Adult Male. Cat. No. 4591, Leland Stanford Junior University
Museum; James Island, April 22, 1899. Above, plain light brown,
darker on the head where the feathers have distinctly dark brown
centers; lighter, almost grayish-brown on the rump and upper tail
coverts. Upper surface of wings and tail darker than the back, some-
what sooty-brown. The wing quills with narrow grayish outer
edgings, and wider slaty inner borders. The upper wing coverts with
indistinct grayish-brown edgings. Under wing coverts whitish.
Lores, superciliary line, subocular and auricular regions, and entire
under parts dirty buff gray, palest on the belly and under tail coverts.
Under parts most strongly tinged with brownish-buff on the breast and
along the sides. Throat and breast spotted with dusky. Bill black.
Feet dark brown. Length 148 millimeters, wing 75, tail 48, culmen
I 7'5* g nvs 9'3 width of bill at base 7.3, depth of bill at base 9.5,
tarsus 24.
Immature. Cat. No. 5225 Leland Stanford Junior University
Museum; Iguana Cove, Albemarle, June 9, 1899. Back almost
entirely pure yellowish-olive, the feathers of the head having slightly
dusky central areas. The lower parts are bright yellowish-buff, con-
siderably paler than the back. Wings and tail dusky with wide olive-
buff edgings to the feathers. The feathers of the breast and sides
without subterminal brown spots. Bill brownish-yellow above, pale
yellowish below. Feet dark brown (specimen moulting). This
plumage is what we have termed Stage I in the evolution of the color
of the Geospizce.
The color of the specimen just described is identical with that of
young birds of the subgenus Camarhynchus. It was taken at about
one thousand feet elevation at the south end of Albemarle, near Iguana
Cove.
This species probably represents the ancestral Geospiza more nearly
than any other species of Geospiza now living. In plumage it is cer-
tainly primitive, for in the adult it reaches only the stage attained by the
immature birds of all the other species. Whether the bill has the
shape of the ancestral Geospiza or not is impossible to say, since the
variation of this member in the genus is so great that we can place no
reliance on the supposition that it has remained constant.
Geospiza pallida differs but little from the next species, G. heliobates
