BIRDS 279
of the mangrove swamps of Albemarle and Narboro. The songs of
the two species are, however, very different. That of G. pallida, as
we heard it on James, may be represented thus : cfiir-kee e-e-e chtr-
kee ~e-e-~e. It is a rare bird, the two specimens above described are the
only ones we obtained.
54. GEOSPIZA HELIOBATES Snodgrass and Heller.
Geospiza heliobates SNODGRASS AND HELLER, The Condor, p. 96, Aug., 1901
(Albemarle Island).
Range. Albemarle and Narboro in mangrove swamps.
Specific Characters. Very similar to G. pallida, resembling it
in coloration, but having a smaller bill the culmen being 15.5 milli-
meters or less in length, while in G. pallida it is 17 millimeters or
more in length.
Adult Male. Cat. No. 4186 (type of the species), Leland Stan-
ford Junior University Museum; mangrove swamp at Tagus Cove,
Albemarle Island, Jan. 24, 1899. Above dark brown with an olive
tinge on the rump ; all of the feathers of the dorsum with narrow pale
olive-grayish edgings; wing and tail feathers lighter, more smoky-
brown ; lores, sides of head and under parts dirty buff -gray ; brownish-
buff on the sides and flanks ; lores spotted with brown ; feathers of the
breast and sides with dark brown central areas forming spots of the
same color. Tips of the greater and the middle wing coverts rather
indistinctly brownish-rufous, forming two inconspicuous cross bands.
Under wing coverts grayish ; under tail coverts brownish-buff with
pale grayish edgings. Under surface of wing and tail feathers grayish-
brown. Bill black. Feet dark brown. Length 123 millimeters,
wing 72, tail 48.5, culmen 15, gonys 8, width of bill at base 6.5,
depth of bill at base 9, tarsus 21.5.
There is a slight variation in the paleness of the under parts in dif-
ferent specimens of adult males, some being slightly paler than the
type. Some also have a slightly more olive tinge to the plumage of
the back. There is present in a few specimens a very distinct gray
superciliary stripe ending behind the eye above the auricular region ;
in others this stripe is less distinctly marked or entirely absent. There
is no distinguishing difference between the Albemarle and Narboro
specimens.
Adult Female. Female specimens having the plumage very much
worn are almost identical in coloration with the males, but generally
have fewer and smaller spots below. Above, the plumage is blackish
on the head, almost pure olive-brown on the back, with the central
