280 SNODGRASS AND HELLER
areas of the feathers darker. Wing and tail feathers dark brown with
olive-buffy edgings.
There is considerable variation in the color of the adult females.
Some are, as described above, almost exactly the same as the males,
but others have the lower parts plain buff -gray with no spots whatever.
Immature Males and Females. Feathers of the head and back
with blackish centers and olive-yellowish borders, on the head the
black predominates, on the rump the olive-yellow, on the back the
two are present in almost equal proportions. Wing and tail dark
brown with buff edgings to the feathers ; these edgings are widest and
most conspicuous on the tips of the greater and middle wing coverts.
Under parts similar to the adult male, having the same spots, but
generally paler. Bill dusky or brownish above, pale brown or yel-
low below. Feet dark brown.
Still younger birds (represented only by males in our collection)
are colored like the last but have no spots on the under surface, being
plain dirty grayish below with a buff tinge, especially on the breast
and along the sides.
We have no females of this stage but it is to be supposed from
analogy that they do not differ from the males.
The extent of the olive coloring on the upper parts varies according
to the abrasion of the plumage. We have no specimens of this species
in the purely olive and yellow plumage characteristic of Stage I, but
since this plumage is well represented by G. pallida we may expect
to find it present in G. heliobates.
Rothschild and Hartert * make the following remark concerning
Geospiza pallida: "The birds which are olive and bufRsh yellow
below are immature ones, but it is somewhat puzzling to account for
the distinct blackish brown stripes on the lower throat, chest and sides
of the body in some of them. Neither the apparently most adult
ones, nor the most yellowish, and therefore, according to our view,
youngest of the series, have these stripes well developed." The facts
of the case are as follows (applicable to either species of the subgenus) :
(i) The youngest birds of each sex are unspotted below ; (2) older
immature birds of both sexes have the lower parts profusely spotted,
in some cases even more so than in the adults ; (3) adult males are
generally more or less spotted below ; (4) adult females may be
spotted below or they may be entirely plain there. The apparent in-
congruity pointed out by Rothschild and Hartert of some of the females
losing their spots in maturity may be explained as follows : The indi-
1 Novitates Zoologicae, vi, p. 166, 1899.
