BIRDS 28l
vidual feathers of the spotted regions of both immature and adult birds
are pale slaty-gray basally; toward the tip is an arrow head shaped
spot of dark brown with the apex directed toward the distal part of
the feather ; beyond this and forming the exposed margin of the feather
is a buffy-gray area. The youngest birds, represented by the olive
and yellow specimens of G. pallida have no brown spots on the
feathers of the lower parts. Our specimen is moulting. Hence, the
spotted plumage is obtained by a moult involving a change in the
color of the feathers. The individual feathers of the adults that are
plain below and of those that are spotted below are the same in color,
but those that are unspotted are new, and show no signs of being
worn, while those of the spotted birds are so greatly worn that nearly
all the pale marginal part has been lost. Hence this difference in the
general coloration of the birds is not one of an actual difference in the
color of the feathers, but is a difference of the degree of abrasion of
the plumage.
The immature spotted birds have the plumage very soft and lax, and
the tips of all the feathers are rough and ragged as if much worn away.
We have no specimens of this age having a fresh plumage, but it is
evident that if the feathers of the worn birds were entire the brown
spots below would be concealed, and then immature birds would
present the same two phases as do the adults. All of our immature
spotted birds are moulting so that between this stage and the adults a
moult intervenes.
Hence there is in Geospiza pallida and G. heliobates no real color
difference between the males and the females. Immature birds in the
second plumage, i. e., in Stage II, differ from the adults only in having
the bill paler in coloration brownish above and yellow below; in
the plumage being softer and more lax, and in possessing wider, more
distinct and more buffy wing bands formed of the pale edgings of the
middle and greater coverts. This latter character distinguishes birds
of this stage in all the subgenera and may be regarded, when com-
bined with a non-olivaceous plumage, as diagnostic of Stage II.
Hence between Stage II and the adults a moult intervenes, but this
moult involves only a slight change in the color of the plumage.
In its habits Geospiza heliobates is the most interesting species of
all the Geospizce. It inhabits exclusively the mangrove swamps and
feeds on insects. Whether it occurs on other islands besides Albemarle
and Narboro we do not know. These swamps in many places con-
sist merely of a narrow fringe of trees bordering shallow lagoons that
run inward from the shore ; but in other places, such as at Turtle
