282 SNODGRASS AND HELLER
Point, Elizabeth Bay and Villa Mil, Albemarle, and along the east
shore of Narboro, depressions of the surface of considerable extent lie a
short distance back from the shore and these fill up with water at high
tide, but have generally no visible connection with the ocean. At such
places there occur large, dense groves of the mangrove tree and of
another tree, Avicennia, which is always associated with it. At high
tide the bases of these trees are covered several feet in depth, while
at low tide the floor of the swamp is generally exposed except for
scattered pools of water. It is only in the denser, interior parts of
such groves as these that Geospiza heliobates is found. The birds
seldom come out to the edge of the swamp, but they may easily be
taken if one can find a clear space near the center of the grove.
They are not timid or wary, but seem simply to prefer the denser and
more shaded parts of the swamps. Their food consists entirely of
insects which they obtain under the bark of the trees.
The notes of this species are as distinctive of it as is its habitat. We
first heard the birds in January in the grove at Turtle Point, just
north of Tagus Cove, on Albemarle. The song resembled tur-tiir,
tiir-tur, tur-tiir, the set of two syllables being generally repeated
three times in succession, although sometimes more and sometimes
only twice. The sound was varied somewhat and often resembled
tiver-twer, ttver-twer. The notes are uttered rather loudly and have
a very striking sound when heard issuing from the depths of a dense
and apparently otherwise uninhabited grove. The birds seem to utter
the notes almost constantly, and their presence and location in a swamp
may always be known by their song.
We observed the species in the swamps of the east shore of Nar-
boro during January, March and April, and did not perceive any dif-
ference between the habits or notes of the birds here and those at
Turtle Point, Albemarle. The species was also observed in two
large groves situated two or three miles apart, on the north shore of
southern Albemarle, a few miles west of Elizabeth Bay. It was at
once apparent, however, on listening to the birds of these swamps
that their song differed from that of the Tagus Cove and Narboro
birds. Instead of each set of notes in the song consisting of two syl-
lables, it consisted of three. Each trisyllabic set was repeated two or
three times just as with the others. The song, hence, resembled
tur-tiir-tur, tur-tur-tiir, tur-tur-tiir. Each swamp was visited twice ;
the birds were not scarce in either, and only now and then were bisyl-
labic sets heard. We visited the Turtle Point swamp again in March
and the birds here were singing, as before, their bisyllabic song.
