BIRDS 285
Geospiza prosthemelas ROTHSCHILD AND HARTERT, Novit. Zool., vi, p. 169,
1899.
Range. Narboro, Albemarle, James, Duncan, Jervis, Indefatig-
able, Charles, Gardner (near Charles), Barrington and Cowley.
Adult Male. Cat. No. 4536, Leland Stanford Jr. University
Museum; James Island, April 21, 1899. Head and neck all around
and breast black. Back and upper surface of wings and tail dark
dusky brown. Rump and upper tail coverts paler brown. Belly and
under tail coverts white ; sides and flanks brownish ; lower part of
breast white, streaked with black. Lower surface of wings and tail
grayish-brown. Under wing coverts dusky-gray anteriorly, whitish
posteriorly. Bill black. Feet dark brown. Length 105 millimeters,
wing 63, tail 38, culmen 10.7, gonys 5.7, width of bill at base 6.3, depth
of bill at base 8, maxilla from nostril 7, tarsus 20.5.
There is a considerable amount of variation amongst the fifteen
specimens of adult males in the collection, specially in the coloration
of the lower parts. Some have the back and upper surface of the wings
lighter than in the one described, contrasting more strongly with the
black of the head. The feathers of the throat and breast may have only
the central areas black, the marginal parts being white. In some not
only the belly but the lower part of the breast and the sides are white,
the sides being streaked with brown. Still others have almost no
dusky below, except on the throat, where the central areas of the
feathers are black,' the general color of the under parts in such speci-
mens being yellowish-olive, shaded on the breast and sides with buff.
The top of the head may be black with narrow olive-yellowish edges to
the feathers, the back, wing- and tail-coverts olive-brownish, with the
central areas of the feathers darker, the wing and tail quills brown with
yellowish-olive edgings. The bill in such specimens is entirely black,
indicating that the birds are adults. Since comparatively few of the
males have purely black heads, we may assume that the acquisition of
this character is rather late in the life of the bird.
Adult Female. Cat. No. 4372, Leland Stanford Jr. University
Museum; Tagus Cove, Albemarle, March 18, 1899. Feathers of the
upper parts dark brown centrally, with yellowish-olive borders nar-
rowest on the head and widest on the lower back and rump. Wings
and tail dusky-brown, the feathers edged with yellowish-olive. Lower
parts dirty buffy-gray, whitish on the belly. Obsolete streaks of brown
on the breast and sides. Bill black. Feet brownish-black.
The streaking of the under parts and the proportion of olive and
brown on the back in adult females varies, but such differences are
