BIRDS 287
On these olive-yellowish specimens there is not enough brown be-
low on the feathers to give the color of the spotted immature form
merely by a wearing away of the paler marginal parts of the feathers.
Hence, there must be, as in the case of G. pallida, a moult inter-
vening between the olive-yellow stage and the spotted stage involving
a change in the color of the feathers. When feathers are acquired
having large subterminal brown spots the olive above and the yellowish
below may yet, however, be indefinitely retained through not being
worn off so as to expose the brown.
Our specimens were taken at Iguana Cove, Albemarle, in Decem-
ber and March ; at Tagus Cove, Albemarle, in June ; on James in
April, and on Duncan and Charles in May.
This is the smallest species of the subgenus Camarhynchus and one
of the smallest of the Geospizce, being about the same size as G. fulig-
inosa. The bill is nearest in shape to that of the subgenus Geospiza
and probably represents the first step in the bill variation along the
Camarhynchus line.
The following two pairs of specimens were taken mated with each
other: Nos. 4246-4268, 4532-4554.
55^. GEOSPIZA PROSTHEMELAS SALVINI (Ridgway).
Camarhynchus salvini RIDGWAY, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xvn, p. 364, 1894
(Chatham Island), and xix, p. 561, 1896 ; Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., 50, Pt.
i, p. 486, 1901.
Geospiza salvini ROTHSCHILD AND HARTERT, Novit. Zool., vi, p. 169,
1899.
Range. Chatham.
This form is very close to G. p. prosthemelas, averaging slightly
larger with a heavier bill, approaching G. paupera in size.
The collection contains seven adult specimens from Chatham taken
in May. Five are apparently adult males, one of which has the head
and throat black, but the color does not extend so far down on the
chest and sides as it does in most of the adult males of G. p. pros-
themelas. The other males, apparantly immature in plumage, are
streaked below anteriorly, being in the plumage described as adult
by other authors. Our specimens are no more olivaceous than those
from Albemarle, but are considerably more so than those from
James.
The Charles Island specimens of G.p. prosthemelas is intermediate
in size between G. p. salvini and G. p. prosthemelas of the other
islands, although some specimens from most of the islands within the
range of the latter species are equal to G. p. salvini in size.
