BIRDS 293
Subgenus Geospiza Gould.
Geospiza GOULD, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., p. 5, 1837. (Type, Geospiza mag-
nirostris Gould.)
Adult males almost entirely black, under tail coverts edged with
whitish; sexes dissimilar ; females never blackish ; the young resemble
the adult female ; bill conical but varies greatly in size and propor-
tions; culmen generally straight.
During their growth males of this subgenus go through Stages II to
VI. There is never at any age any plumage resembling the yellowish-
olive plumage of Stage I in Cactospiza and Camarhynchus. Young
birds in the first plumage are in Stage II. The adult female is the
same as in the two preceding groups.
The evolution of this subgenus is not so simple as that of Cama-
rhynchus. G. fuliginosa parvula we take as the most generalized
member of the group, partly because it is most convenient to form a
series beginning with it, and also because it resembles in size and
general proportions Geospiza ( Camarhynchus} prosthemelas with
which we started the Camarhynchus series. Starting with G. fuli-
ginosa parvula, and constructing the series according to the size and
shape of the bill, we can form a continuous line from G. fuliginosa
parvula to the more slender billed varieties of the same species, and
from these through G. debilirostris and G. septentrionalis to the
more slender billed members of the subgenus Cactornis. In the latter
subgenus there is again an evolution in the color, consisting of a
farther advance in melanism affecting the young of both sexes and
the adult females. From G. fuliginosa parvula also a second line
branches off in the opposite direction with regard to the size of the
bill, /. ., instead of becoming longer and more slender, the bill be-
comes proportionally larger and thicker at the base. This series
begins with G. fortis fortis, runs through the other varieties of the
same species, and then through G. darwini and G. strenua to G.
magn irostris .
The species G. conirostris tve place in the subgenus Cactornis.
This is contrary to any disposition of it made by other authors, but
the species have heretofore been grouped solely according to the
shape of the bill. This, we think, is certainly a mistake, for the color
is so characteristically different in the four groups as we here give
them, and manifestly so much more constant than the shape of the
bill, that we feel confident in relying on it as being a more important
character for classifying the members of the genus. However, the
bill in G. conirostris propinqua almost grades into that of G. scandens
Proc. Wash. Acad. Sci., January, 1904.
