294 SNODGRASS AND HELLER
rothschildi, so that there is scarcely a break in the bill series of Cac-
tornis even when G. conirostris is included in it.
62. THE GEOSPIZA FULIGINOSA SERIES.
This series comprises all the smaller billed forms of Geospiza.
Under it we include the subspecies G. f. par-villa, G.f . fuliginosa,
G.f. minor, G.f. acutirostris and G. f. difficilis. It is represented
on every island of the archipelago except the two most northern and
smallest ones Wenman and Culpepper. The bill varies within the
following limits: Culmen 12-15.5, width of bill at base 6.3-8, depth
of bill at base 6.5-10.
The species is the most abundant in individuals almost everywhere
that it occurs, as well as the most widely distributed.
62*. GEOSPIZA FULIGINOSA PARVULA (Gould).
Geospisa parvula GOULD, Proc. Zool. Soc. Lond., p. 6, 1837 (James).
RIDGWAY, Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xix, p. 529, 1896.
Geospiza fuliginosa fuliginosa ROTHSCHILD AND HARTERT, Novit. Zool., vi,
p. 161, 1899.
Geospiza fuliginosa RIDGWAY (not of GOULD), Proc. U. S. Nat. Mus., xix,
p. 526, 1896 ; Bull. U. S. Nat. Mus., 50, Pt. I, p. 504, 1901.
Range. James, Albemarle, Narboro, Duncan, Jervis, Indefatig-
able, Seymour, Barrington, Charles, Gardner (near Charles) and
Hood.
Most of the specimens referred to Geospiza parvula by Ridgway are
undoubtedly simply small sized specimens of the same species that he
called Geospiza fuliginosa. Rothschild and Hartert state that " the
type of G. parvula, according to Darwin, had been collected on James
Island." Hence the name Geospiza fuliginosa parvula (Gould) must
be given to the representatives of G. fuliginosa inhabiting the islands
given above, since these differ slightly as a whole from the representa-
tives on Chatham to which the name G. fuliginosa fuliginosa
(Gould) must be given.
The bill of G.f. parvula is shaped like that of G. fortis but is
considerably smaller, the culmen averaging about thirteen millimeters,
being always less than fifteen. The variety differs from G. f. fuligi-
nosa in the shorter but less slender bill. Some specimens from the
northern slope of Narboro have unusually slender bills which nearly
equal in length those of the longest billed Chatham specimens.
This is the most abundant form of Geospiza in the archipelago.
It outnumbers in individuals all the other species together almost
everywhere that it occurs. On account of its being the most easily
