BIRDS 295
studied species, and also apparently the most generalized of the sub-
genus Geospiza, we give the following detailed descriptions of the
different stages which were briefly outlined in the introduction to the
genus. The birds in the first plumage are in Stage II, St^ge~I having
been apparently crowded out of the life history in the subgenera Geo-
spiza and Cactornis.
Stage II. Toung Males and Females just out of Nest. This
stage represents the first phase of the plumage of birds of both sexes
after leaving the nest and is characteristic of young birds of the first
year during spring and summer. We have no specimens taken later
than June, so we do not know when the change from this stage to the
next takes place. Young birds taken in December and January are in
Stage III.
Feathers all soft and lax. Top of head and back brownish or dusky,
the feathers with buffy, sometimes with buff y -yellowish margins widest
on middle of back and on rump. Wing feathers sooty-brown, all of
them with buffy-yellow edgings, these widest and most yellow on the
greater coverts, narrowest and grayer on the outer edges of the pri-
maries. Upper surface of rectrices dusky-brown, higher than the
wings, edged with olive-buff. Sides of head and lower parts grayish-
buff, more or less spotted with brown, especially on the throat and
breast. Some specimens are almost uniformly pale below ; others are
thickly spotted. Each feather below has the concealed basal part
dark slaty-plumbeous, the marginal part grayish-buff and between
these two colors an arrowhead-shaped spot of dark brown. The size
and intensity of this spot varies ; when small it is almost entirely con-
cealed by the buffy marginal color, and when large it causes the con-
spicuously spotted appearance of some specimens. Lower surface of
wings and tail brown, paler than above, the primaries and secondaries
with pale grayish inner margins. Bill either plain pale yellowish or
yellow with the upper mandible clouded with light brownish. Feet
blackish-brown. Examples: Leland Stanford Jr. University Museum
Catalogue Nos. 4349, 4539, 454* > Iguana cove, Albemarle, March;
No. 4539, female, James, April; No. 4541, male, James, April.
Stage III (a} Toung Males and Females of the Winter Months.
Young birds are mostly in this stage about Tagus Cove during De-
cember and January. When the plumage is attained we do not know,
for we have no specimens taken earlier than the last of December.
Plumage compact and of the same texture as in adult birds, not
loose and soft as in Stage II. Upper parts brownish. The cen-
tral areas of the feathers dusky-brown, the marginal parts lighter
