296 SNODGRASS AND HELLER
brown, but not buffy 'as in Stage II ; the pale margins narrowest
on the head, widest on the rump. Upper surfaces of wings and tail
sooty brown, somewhat lighter than the central parts of the feathers
of the dorsum ; the primaries narrowly edged with ashy-gray. The
greater coverts rather widely edged with buffy-brown; secondaries and
rectrices more narrowly edged with buffy-brown. The buffy edgings
on the coverts are duller and not so conspicuously yellow as on birds
in Stage II. Below pale grayish with a slight buffy tinge on the belly
and sides, the feathers with subterminal arrowhead shaped brown
spots producing a streaked or spotted appearance on a pale ground
formed by the light marginal parts of the feathers. The spots most
numerous on the throat, breast and sides ; the middle of the abdomen
plain. Under surface of wings and tail as in last stage. The bill may
be entirely yellowish, entirely dusky-yellowish, brownish-yellow with
dusky tip, or entirely brownish above and yellowish below or yellow-
ish below with the tip dusky. Feet blackish brown. (Examples:
Leland Stanford Jr. University Museum Cat. No. 3880, female, Tagus
Cove, Albermarle, January; No. 4202, female, Tagus Cove, Janu-
ary; No. 4194, female, Narboro, April; No. 4194? female, Tagus
Cove, January; No. 4106, Iguana Cove, December.)
() Adult Females. In plumage the adult female belongs to Stage
III, being almost indistinguishable, except by the color of the bill,
from young birds in the stage just described. The females, however,
differ from young birds in this stage in lacking the buffy margins to
the wing coverts, these being narrowly margined with grayish-brown.
The bill is in some cases perfectly black as in the male, but it gener-
ally has a distinct brownish color rather than black, and in breeding
birds the lower mandible may be pale brownish. Feet blackish-
brown. (Examples : Leland Stanford Jr. University Museum Cat.
No. 4369, female, Tagus Cove, March; No. 4392, female, Tagus
Cove, March ; No. 4406, female, Tagus Cove, March ; No. 4409,
female, Tagus Cove, March all taken mated with adult males.)
Stage IV. Immature Males. In this stage the males begin to
differentiate from the females in the color of the plumage. Birds in
this stage are similar in general pattern of coloration to males in the
last stage. They differ, however, in having the dusky areas of the
feathers of the lower parts much larger, so that below the specimens
appear covered with crowded brown spots, especially on the throat and
breast. The belly is generally mostly free from spots, but both the
belly and sides are strongly shaded with brownish-buff. The bill is
generally black, sometimes entirely so, but generally somewhat paler
