BIRDS 297
beneath or with a pale spot on the gonys. Feet blackish-brown.
(Examples : Leland Stanford Jr. University Museum Cat. No. 4072,
male, Iguana Cove, December; No. 4075, male, Iguana Cove, De-
cember; No. 4104, male, Iguana Cove, December.)
Stage V. Immature Males {Older than the Last}. Head all
around, throat and breast continuously black. Feathers of the back
with dusky centers, but with paler brownish margins, the brown
lightest and most extensive on the rump. Upper tail coverts same as
feathers of back. Upper surface of wings and tail dusky brown, the
primaries and greater wing coverts edged with pale grayish-brown,
the secondaries and rectrices edged with light but not grayish brown,
as are the feathers of the back. Lower surface posterior to the breast
buffy -whitish, streaked with brown along the sides. Lower tail coverts
buffy- whitish. Lower wing coverts grayish and dusky. Lower sur-
face of wings and tail grayish-brown ; the inner edges of the primaries
pale grayish. Bill generally black, but may have some yellowish on
either or both mandibles. Feet blackish-brown.
This stage in the subgenus Geospiza represents the adult males of
the subgenus Camarhynchus, while Stage VI represents the advance
of Geospiza and Cactornis beyond Camarhynchus. (Examples
of Stage V: Leland Stanford Jr. University Museum Cat. No. 4101,
male, Iguana Cove, December; No. 5087, male, Iguana Cove, June.)
Birds in this stage are rather scarce, a fact perhaps indicating that the
stage is quickly passed through.
Stage VI. Adult Males. The most melanistic forms are colored
as follows : General color black, deepest anteriorly. The basal con-
cealed part of each feather pale slaty-gray, this color abruptly demar-
cated from the wide black marginal part ; there is no trace anywhere
of a paler brownish margin beyond the black. On the rump the black
part of the feathers is narrower so that the color is easily exposed
if the feathers are slightly disturbed. The primaries, inner webs of
the secondaries, and the rectrices dusky-brownish, somewhat con-
trasting with the rest of the dorsum and the exposed parts of the sec-
ondaries. Under tail coverts margined on the exposed parts with pale
buffy-white. Under wing coverts black. Under surface of wings
and tail dark grayish -brown, on the wings contrasting strongly with
the black of the under wing coverts. Bill always entirely black.
Feet blackish-brown. (Examples: Leland Stanford Jr. University
Museum Cat. No. 4187, male, Tagus Cove, January; No. 3938,
male, Iguana Cove, December these taken mated with adult
females.)
