BIRDS 299
the middle of the back, however, it expands greatly, forming a large
oval patch which extends posteriorly to the anterior part of the lumbo-
sacral region. Here the dorsal pteryla again contracts into a narrow
median band which extends along the middle of the rump to the oil
gland, expanding very slightly back of the acetabula. The ventral
tract forms anteriorly a single band along the upper and middle parts
of the ventral side of the neck. A little below the middle of the neck
it bifurcates and each half runs outward and posteriorly on the side
of the neck to the shoulder. Here it gives off laterally a shoulder
band which in turn divides into the alar and humeral tracts. The
main pteryla3 continue posteriorly on the sides of the breast. The
two diverge considerably, each becoming wider and extend along the
side of the abdomen to the knee. Here each contracts again and runs
down the front of the abdomen to near the anus, the two converging
once more.
Color of the Pill. The general development of the color of the
bill in the male is as follows : early in the life of the bird, in the be-
ginning of Stage II, both mandibles of the bill are yellow. Soon the
upper begins to become clouded with dusky, the yellow remaining
longest as a spot on the culmen generally near the tip of the mandible.
When the upper mandible has attained this coloration the lower be-
gins to become dusky, the dark color beginning at the tip and later
spreading over the whole mandible, the yellow remaining longest as a
spot on the gonys. The dark color of both mandibles is at first brown-
ish, later it becomes black. The color is developed in the same man-
ner on the bill of the female, but, the acquisition of the dark color
takes longer and the final tone is dusky-brown rather than black.
The development of the black color on the bill and on the plumage
do not always progress at the same rate. Often birds may be found
with perfectly black plumage, but with the bill partly yellow; the
lower mandible maybe even entirely yellowish. In birds only partly
white below, the bill may be slaty-brown above and yellow below.
Relationship between Color of Bill and Plumage, and Maturity.
There is apparently no seasonal change of plumage in the males
adults being equally black, whether taken in January, March or June.
The height of the nesting season is in March in most places.
The following observations on the development of the color of the
plumage and bill are based on specimens taken at Tagus Cove, Eliza-
beth Bay and Iguana Cove, Albemarle, during the months of January,
February, March and June. We were not at the same locality any-
where else long enough to make observations on these points else-
