3OO SNODGRASS AND HELLER
where. From Tagus Cove we have twenty two specimens of males
taken in January, two taken in February and fourteen taken in March.
All of the clearly immature birds occur in the January and February
lot. Most of the January specimens are in the brown plumage,
Stage III, four are in Stage IV and two in Stage II. Both of the
February specimens are in Stage V. Nearly all of the March speci-
mens are in Stage VI or in a condition intermediate between Stage V
and Stage VI. This is the typical breeding plumage. One specimen,
however, is in Stage V and was taken apparently mated with a
female. Another specimen taken mated with a female is actually in
Stage III ! This, then, shows that, although the black or nearly black
plumage and sexual maturity generally coincide, yet the melanistic
phase may be retarded. It is also evident that the males do not be-
come entirely dusky until the end of the first year.
All the March males have the bill perfectly black. Few of the
others, however, have the bill entirely black, most of them having
some remnant of the yellow on the lower mandible, either as a definite
spot near the tip of the gonys or as a diffusion over the base. Some
even with purely black plumage have the lower mandible entirely
yellow. Hence the bill does not become entirely black until the end
of the first year and may remain partly pale longer than the
plumage. The breeding male in plumage Stage III has the bill
entirely black, thus resembling exactly the adult female. Hence,
sexually mature males may have immature plumage, but we have no
case of a breeding bird having an immature bill.
From Iguana Cove we have sixteen male specimens taken in Janu-
ary and two taken in March.
Of the January birds only four are in Stage VI, eight are in Stage
V and IV or intermediate between the two, and three are in Stage III.
Yet all of these birds except one (this one in Stage III) were ap-
parently breeding males. The nesting season had here begun at this
season and the males in all stages of plumage had the testes enlarged
as if breeding. The breeding season at Iguana Cove begins about two
months in advance of that at Tagus Cove. This difference is due most
probably to the much greater humidity of Iguana Cove as compared
with Tagus Cove. The breeding season lasts at least as long as it
does at Tagus Cove, /. ., until April. Hence, it is probable that
birds hatched here during the last of a season begin breeding at the first
of the season in the following year when they are only ten months old,
being in Stage V or even IV, and, hence, before they have had time
to acquire the full black plumage.
