BIRDS 3OI
We have thirteen male specimens taken during the second half of
February at Elizabeth Bay. The males are mostly in the black
plumage and have black bills. Two are intermediate between stages
V and VI. One is in Stage V but has the bill entirely black. The
nesting season here had apparently just begun at this time. It is
probable that it is of short duration as it is at Tagus Cove, and the
birds have time to acquire the black plumage before they begin to
breed.
There is a slight seasonal change in the plumage of the females due
to the age and consequent abrasion of the feathers. Specimens taken
in March compared with specimens taken in January average darker
below with less of the pale color of the marginal parts of the feathers.
Only three of our specimens of females taken in March have per-
fectly black bills. In some cases the gonys is almost entirely yellowish
and this is true of birds taken mated with males. Only two of the
January specimens have dusky bills. Hence the bills of the females
do not as a rule become black by the end of the first year, and ap-
parently seldom become perfectly black, showing a tendency to remain,
as does the plumage, in a non-melanistic condition. In this respect
they differ from the males, which apparently regularly acquire black
bills by the beginning of the breeding season.
Nature of the Change from one Phase of Plumage to the Next
Moulting. The change in color of the males from the young to the
adult consists not only of a spreading of the dark color from the head
over the posterior parts, but also of a change from brown to black.
Of eleven breeding males taken at Tagus Cove in March three are
in a plumage that could have been produced from the plumage of
January birds in Stage V by abrasion of the pale tips of the feathers.
The pale color is very conspicuous below on the belly, flanks and
crissum, but less so than in typical examples of Stage V. The black
of the other parts, especially of the back and rump is not intense as in
birds most typical of Stage VI, but has a very distinct brownish tone.
The tail and wing feathers are also much paler and more decidedly
brownish than in the most melanistic forms. These brownish-black
forms could not pass over into the purely black phase without a moult
involving a change of color in the feathers, although they might be
produced from Stage V simply through abrasion of the feathers.
We have one specimen, taken at Tagus Cove in February, which
is in a stage intermediate between Stages V and IV. This specimen
is moulting, but the new feathers coming in have the same pale edges
and brown subterminal areas as the old ones.
