3<D2 SNODGRASS AND HELLER
Three specimens taken January 12 and one taken January 24, at
Tagus Cove, all in Stage V or between this Stage and Stage IV, show
traces of moulting, but none so much so as the February specimen.
Any of these birds might attain the same plumage as the brown-backed,
pale-bellied breeding birds of March through abrasion of the plumage
involving a wearing away of the pale edges of the feathers.
There are three other birds from Tagus Cove taken in January in
the brown-spotted phase, Stage III, which are also moulting. These,
however, could not go over into Stages IV or V without a moult in-
volving a change in the color of the feathers, for they are distinctly
paler brown everywhere and not dusky. Another bird taken January
30 is dusky beneath but paler than specimens typical of Stage V, and
has the bill pinkish-yellow clouded with dusky. It is moulting
slightly.
There are in the collection sixteen male specimens taken at Tagus
Cove in January. These vary from the purely black phase character-
istic of Stage VI, to forms with dusky head, conspicuously brown
backs and tail, pale rumps, and with much pale buffy-grayish on the
edges of the feathers of the belly, flanks and crissum. One of these
duplicates in coloration the palest of the breeding March birds.
Among these dusky January birds, is one that has no pale color below
except on the under tail coverts but has a few new feathers growing
in; while several of those having pale bellies have many young
feathers.
None of the specimens from Elizabeth Bay, taken in February shows
any sign of moulting. Of thirteen males one is in Stage IV, two are
in Stage V and several are in the brown-backed, pale-bellied breeding
plumage intermediate between Stage V and Stage VI.
There are in the collection sixteen specimens from Iguana Cove
taken in December, January and March. Only two of the December
and January specimens show any indication of moulting. These are
both in Stage IV ; they have very much worn plumage and a few new
feathers growing in. One of them has the lower mandible yellowish
with black at the tip and base. The testes were enlarged as if the
bird was breeding. The other has the bill almost entirely black
with the exception of a yellowish spot on the culmen and another
on the gonys. The testes of this one were somewhat enlarged.
Hence, it appears that by the beginning of the breeding season, which
here commences in January, most of the males have ceased moulting.
The plumage of all the specimens is worn and does not have the
appearance of having been newly acquired.
