BIRDS 303
Most of the immature female specimens taken in January at Tagus
Cove are moulting. Of the adult females only one is moulting it
has a few new feathers coming in on the back. Of the females taken
in March only two (there are eighteen in all) are moulting njeadi of
these having a few new feathers growing in on the dorsum. These
two moulting adults were breeding since they were taken mated with
adult males.
None of the Elizabeth Bay females, taken during the second half of
February, is moulting, and only one Iguana Cove female, taken the
last of December, is moulting. This latter is an adult, and, appar-
ently, a breeding bird, and has a few new wing quills coming in.
The breeding (March) females from Tagus Cove have a different
appearance from the immature females taken in January. They are
much darker below, the brown color predominating, while in the
January specimens the pale color predominates and the brown is
almost restricted to the sides of the body and the fore-parts of the
breast. In many cases it appears doubtful that the March phase could
have been derived from the January phase simply by an abrasion of
the feathers, for there is not enough brown on the feathers of the latter
especially on those of the belly and lower breast, to produce so dark a
tone as characterizes the March birds, even if the pale edgings were all
worn off. This difference would, hence, indicate a slight change of
color during the January moult which terminates during February.
The foregoing facts may be summarized as follows : during the
time from December to February the males go through Stages III,
IV and V, arriving at Stage VI by the first of March. In Stage VI
they are at first, however, brownish-black instead of pure black. The
females during the same time become slightly darker and acquire a
larger proportion of brown on the plumage. Both males and females
show all gradations of color from one phase of plumage to another,
i. e., there is no jump from one stage to the next as would be the case
if one phase were due to a rapid loss of one set of feathers and a
simultaneous acquisition of a new set. Corresponding with the
gradual change in the appearance, which slowly leads from one stage
to that following, is the fact that none of the birds that are moulting
shows any extensive indications of doing so. In all cases the moulting
process appears to be a gradual loss of old feathers and a correspond-
ing ingrowth of new ones, for in no case are there more than compar-
atively a few new feathers to be seen growing in. The birds never
appear denuded, and the total number of feathers appears to be al-
ways the same. (This does not apply to birds in Stage II.)
