304 SNODGRASS AND HELLER
Along with the moulting of the feather there takes place a gradual
change in the color of the feathers. The plumage becomes darker
through the successive sets of feathers having not only more dark color
but also a duskier shade of dark color and narrower pale edgings.
In the male the color change is from light brown, through dark dusky
brown to black ; in the female from light brown to dark brown. The
spreading of the dark color is due in part also to the wearing away of
the light margins of the feathers, -so that general color of plumage
formed of old feathers is darker than that composed of new feathers.
Hence, both males and females moult slowly and gradually from
December into February, the new feathers having successively more
dark color on them, and the dark color becoming successively darker,
being always brown in the females but changing in the males from
light brown, through dark and dusky-brown, to black.
Young birds taken at Tagus Cove in June are in Stage II. One
male taken June 9 is in Stage V and is not moulting. We have no
other specimens from Albemarle taken after the breeding season.
Hence we do not know what phases of plumage the birds are in on
Albemarle during the time from March till December. Birds taken
on the other islands, however, during April, May and June are mostly
either in Stage VI or in Stage II. We have twenty two males from
Indefatigable and Seymour taken during the last of April and the first
of May that are in Stage VI. One is in Stage V and has a few new
feathers growing in on the breast. Several others are in Stages IV
and III and most of these are moulting. Besides these there are
numerous specimens in Stage II, birds just from the nest. From
Charles we have two adult males in Stage VI, five adult females, and
numerous young birds in Stage II. We have no material to indicate
when the transition from Stage II to Stage III takes place. Nor do
we know at what age adult males in Stage VI change from the black-
ish-brown phase to the purely black phase. The fact that many
breeding males possess the blackish-brown plumage would indicate
that the purely black plumage is not acquired until during the second
year.
Habits, Song, Nests and Eggs. Geospiza fuliginosa parvula
is extremely abundant about Tagus Cove on Albemarle, living
everywhere in the dry brush that covers the walls of the old tufa
craters of this part of the island. The individuals commonly asso-
ciate with one another in small flocks and often mix gregariously
with the less abundant, larger-billed Geospiza fortis. Although their
food consists almost entirely of seeds, yet many of the birds may
