BIRDS 305
be seen along the shore feeding among the rocks below high water.
During the dry season great numbers of them collect about the holes
of fresh water a short distance south of Tagus Cove. This is the only
fresh water of this part of the island, and birds that do not visit it must
depend entirely on dew for water. In the mornings they may often
be seen taking dew baths, perhaps never having known the luxury of
a running stream. During the middle of the day many of these birds
may be seen with gaping mandibles, in evident distress from the heat
and dryness. Habel thinks that a large number of them, especially
young birds, perish from want of water. They feed on both seeds
and insects, picking up anything they can find and swallowing with
their food a large quantity of gravel. They most frequently pick up
their food from the ground, and it is this habit alone which has gained
for them their name of " Ground Finch" ; for they never build their
nests on the ground, and except when feeding they are nearly always
in the bushes and trees. Furthermore, they pick many insects from
crevices of the bushes, eat berries and devour large numbers of Lep-
idopteran larvae during the rainy months of February and March.
Although spiders are numerous, the Geospizas seldom molest them.
The birds are generally abundant wherever vegetation is found, and
their range extends to the top of the mountain back of Tagus Cove,
four thousand feet above sea level. Only a few, however, live in the
mangrove swamps to the north of Tagus Cove, most of them appear-
ing to eschew these dense, wet places, preferring the dryer, sunnier
and more desolate brush-covered areas.
Our first visit to Tagus Cove was made during January and the first
week of February. The breeding season was not yet on, but the males
did a good deal of singing, although there was not much variety in it
then. Their song at this time, however, is characteristic of them, and
can be recognized as the basis of almost all their numerous songs of
the breeding season. It consisted of three repetitions of two connected
syllables and may be represented phonetically thus : teur'-wee, teur'-
wee, teur'-ivee, the accent on the first syllable. The single bisyllabic
set is the fundamental element of all their singing. The consonant
sounds vary a great deal, but it is difficult to observe them accurately
and impossible to represent them by the sounds of letters. Their
vowels come more nearly within the range of alphabetical sounds.
The first syllable varies from a teur-sound to what may be represented
by a German umlauted , thus fur' -wee, tur'-ijoee, tur-ivee* Every-
where about the cove the birds could be heard uttering this song. It
was varied in many ways, but each set seldom had more than two
