306 SNODGRASS AND HELLER
syllables. In some cases the vowel sounds were reversed, so that the
song sounded like tee'-twiir, tee'-twiir, tee'-twiir. One bird was heard
singing tii'-dl, til'-dl.
When Tagus Cove was again visited (March n to 26), everything
was greatly changed. Rains during February and the first part of
March had caused a revolution in the vegetation, which was now
green, in pleasing contrast with the former brown and barren aspect
of the hills. The birds were in the height of their nesting season,
almost all of the nests found containing either eggs or young birds.
Everywhere the males were vigorously exerting their musical powers
and the common song of January was replaced by longer and more
elegant pieces of music, so that the teur'-wee song was not nearly so
prominent as before. The closest thing to it merely had the accent
shifted to the second syllable, sounding like teur-wee', teur-wee' . The
song variety next removed consisted of a lengthening of the second
syllable, so that it resembled teur-lee e', teur-lee e' . Another
song may be represented thus : tew twee -twee- twee -twee. The twee
syllable was generally repeated four times, but often only two or three
times. The space between the first and second syllables was generally
considerably greater than that between the others. No syllable had
any special accent. One bird was heard singing with a great deal of
force a song resembling ee'-zert, ee'-zert. Special stress was given to
the first syllable which was also slightly elongated. A common song
at this time sounded something like tur-leU 1 ', tur-lee' . Another song
resembled tee'-iil-tee, tee^-ul-tee.
During the breeding season the males sing almost continually and are
constantly active. The females on the other hand, both when alone
and when with their male companions, are very quiet and reserved,
showing little excitement. They utter merely a single, low, pro-
longed note used by either bird of a mated pair as a call or an answer
to the other when the two are feeding or hopping about in the bushes
near each other. When a male is with his mate he is generally con-
tented with flying or hopping about with her, making no demonstra-
tions of his affection for her and giving no evidence of any unusual
state of mind. It is when she is occupied with her domestic duties
that the male gives vent to his emotions, pouring forth most lavishly
all the songs of which he is capable. It must be said, however, that,
although his efforts are good, his actual productions can by no means
rank with those of even ordinary singing birds, and indeed anywhere
else would scarcely pass for songs. One never hears from the Geo-
spizas such songs as are uttered by the song-sparrow or house-finches.
