BIRDS 307
The birds are scarce about Elizabeth Bay on Albemarle, for there is
little vegetation here outside of the mangrove swamps, and, as said
before, these salt swamps appear to be uncongenial to them. On the
north side of Perry Isthmus, however, there is plenty of vegetation all
over the side and about the base of the mountain there situated, and
the birds were found abundantly at this place. We were here during
February and it was noticed that Geospiza fuliginosa parvula uttered
notes very strikingly different from anything heard elsewhere. The
song was so very much like that of the swamp Geospiza heliobates
that when we entered the mangrove swamp along the shore where
the birds were singing, we supposed we were listening to this bird.
Afterwards, however, a specimen in the act of singing the song was
taken outside of the swamp and found to be Geospiza fuliginosa
parvula. The song itself consisted of a repetition of a single note and
resembled somewhat t'wer-t r< we'r-t t 'wer-t t iver. Each note had a
double sound, the t being slightly separated, as if composed of a
bisyllabic sound condensed into a single syllable. Three or four
was the usual number of repetitions of the note.
During the time we were here the birds were nesting both in the
mangrove swamps along the shore and in the trees and bushes inland.
One male was noticed in a swamp reconstructing an old nest with ma-
terial that he took from another old nest in a neighboring tree. While
at work he constantly uttered in loud clear tones the song just de-
scribed. He worked, however, very interruptedly, for he spent a
great deal of time in flying about in a very excited manner from tree
to tree, acting just as if he was living in a state of such happy expecta-
tion that he could scarcely contain his emotions. At intervals a female
came around to inspect the nest. She was always very quiet and
showed no excitement at all, very calmly examining the nest, but
paying almost no attention to the male. She, however, or perhaps
the delightful hope of her approval of the nest, was very evidently the
sole cause of the male's exuberance of spirit. Whenever she appeared
he flew about wildly, first to the nest and then to some neighboring
branch and back again to the nest, all the time uttering with greatest
energy the song described. Very curiously, however, he did not fly
about the female nor keep close to her nor even look toward her more
than in any other direction. Whenever he alighted anywhere he held
his body in a depressed attitude and kept his wings rigidly half spread
in a drooping oblique position, all the time turning partly from one
side to the other. If the female went into the nest he went in also, or
at least to the nest, and then either one or both of them uttered low
