236 SNODGRASS AND HELLER
are suspended at the sides, but held a little away from the body so
that from a distance one can see between the wings and the body.
When sitting in a horizontal attitude, as they do when evidently taking
their ease, generally on the top of some rock, the same hump is con-
spicuous at the middle of the back, the wings are held downward at
right angles to the body, clasping the sides of the rock as if to help
retain the position there. The wings are never held back against the
sides of the body in ordinary bird fashion. The bill is nearly always
directed upward at a small angle. During progression on land they
hop with both feet together, keeping the body erect, and present a
very awkward and clumsy appearance ; but in the water they are ex-
ceedingly graceful. When quietly floating the bill is inclined a little
upward as when they sit on the rocks. They swim entirely by means
of the wings, the feet being held close together and extended straight
behind the body, acting apparently as a rudder. On the surface they
swim rather slowly, and an up-and-down bobbing motion is imparted
to the body. Beneath the surface they go in any direction with great
rapidity, having then more the appearance of a fish or seal than of a
bird. They also leap from beneath the water into the air and dive
back again just as does a seal or porpoise when breaching.
Occasionally they make a sort of grunt, and also utter deep elon-
gated sounds resembling ha-a-a-ah, the stress gradually declining
toward the end. This latter note seems to be a call from one bird to
another, but when uttered no obvious reason appears why they should
thus call to one another. We did not find them nesting and did not
see any of them mated.
Family STERCORARIHXE.
Genus Stercorarius Brisson.
Stercorarius BRISSON, Ornithologist, vi, pp. 149, 150, 1760.
Range. Breeding in arctic and subarctic regions, migrating in
winter south into the tropics.
2. STERCORARIUS POMARINUS (Temminck).
Lestris pomarina TEMMINCK, Manuel d'Ornithologie, p. 514, 1815.
Stercorarius pomarinus ROTHSCHILD AND HARTERT, Novit. Zool., vi, p. 192,
1899 (Galapagos).
Range. Nearctic and palaearctic, south in winter to Africa, Aus-
tralia and South America. Galapagos Archipelego (accidental) .
One immature female reported by Rothschild and Hartert, taken by
the Harris expedition in December.
