308 SNODGRASS AND HELLER
elongated notes sounding somewhat like chee ee. They uttered
this note a number of times while observed but always either when
both flew to the nest together or when one was at the nest and the
other flew to it. It was impossible to observe whether at such times
both birds uttered the note or only one, but two voices seemed to be
distinguishable.
The birds have a common note that they utter on ordinary occa-
sions, such as when they are hopping about in the bushes or when
feeding. This is a short, low simple chick-Vkt sound. Besides this
they have another, a more lengthened note, having a sort of broken
sound. This they use on more special occasions it is almost always
heard when a male flies after a female, apparently both of them utter-
ing it.
The song of the birds at Iguana Cove was first observed during the
Jatter part of December. At this time they were occupied with nest
building and numerous unfinished and many completed nests were
found, but only a few of the latter contained eggs. A very common
song resembled the teur'wee song of Tagus Cove, it being bisyllabic,
having a vowel sound in the first syllable resembling a German um-
lauted u and in the second a long e. The song may be represented
thus : tul'-wee, tiil'-wee, the sets being generally uttered twice, often
three times, in succession. Sometimes the second syllable was repeated
several times ; one bird was heard singing thus : tiil-twee-twee-twee,
tul- twee- twee-twee. Another song heard resembled the first de-
scribed, but had the accent on the second syllable : tii-lee f , tii-lee'.
Again the vowel sounds were reversed and the song sounded like
fee'-twur, tee'-twur. The same variations take place with this;
one bird was heard singing tee'-twiir-twur-twur, fee'- etc., in each
set of this song, the accent being given to the first syllable. An-
other bird sang a song of two syllables, in each of which the vowel
had the w-sound, and the first syllable was much prolonged, thus :
tii . . . . u-twiir. This was uttered either by itself as an entire song
or was followed by twee- twee-twee.
These varieties of song were all uttered by males in full black
plumage, the usual breeding age dress. However, a brown-plumaged
bird was observed singing a song resembling tu . . . . ul . . . . l-wee,
the first syllable being greatly prolonged, although varying consider-
ably in length, while the second was shorter and abruptly higher in
pitch. Another brown-plumaged bird was observed acting exactly
after the manner of a breeding male. He was rapidly and excitedly
uttering a song somewhat like tu-wee', tti-wee'^ tu-wte', and was amor-
