BIRDS 309
ously pursuing a second brown-colored bird, apparently a female, be-
fore whom he presented himself in a drooping attitude with spread
wings. Several brown-plumaged males were shot which had the
testes enlarged.
We visited Iguana Cove again during the first part of March. This
time numerous sets of eggs, all well advanced in incubation, and sev-
eral sets of young birds were found. Everywhere the males were
singing continuously. Their song was even more varied than before,
consisting in most cases of several syllables instead of two. One song
resembled til Tvee'-tivee-tivee-twee. The ordinary tu'-wee song was
heard, but it was not nearly so common as in December, while the
songs with a greater number of syllables were much more common
than then.
The same place was visited a third time early in June. The nest-
ing season was now past and the birds were much less abundant on the
flat to the east of Iguana Cove than during December and March, and
but few were heard singing.
At Tagus Cove some fledglings were taken from the nest while
the parents were absent. Both of the latter, however, soon came
flying very excitedly about the place, keeping most of the time near
the ground, repeating in rapid succession a short, sharp, tweet-N&Q
note. The young became very angry at being handled and uttered a
a sound resembling zee"u, zee n u, zee n u, etc. The long -sound of the
first syllable was somewhat prolonged and given a deep vibratory
sound. Although the young birds were not yet able to fly, they
uttered the notes in very resentful tones and bit savagely at the fingers
of the person handling them.
Birds were observed on the Seymour Islands and the neighboring
part of Indefatigable from April 26 to May 4. On South Seymour they
were much more abundant than on North Seymour or on the part of
Indefatigable visited. They were not nesting, but the males were
singing a great deal, and most of the songs they sang were very no-
ticeably different from the songs of the Albemarle birds. The song
that they uttered most commonly resembled teur'-lee-hee, teur'-lee-
h~ee, teur'-lee-kee. The first syllable of each set carried the accent,
and the second and third syllables differed only in the initial consonant
sound. The same individuals that sang this song often uttered the
same syllables with the accent transferred to the second, thus : teur-
lee'-h~ee, teur-lee'-kee, teur-lee'-h~ee. This song was almost as common
as the other, and indeed a bird singing one almost always, sooner or
later, changed to the other. Another song often heard sounded like
Proc. Wash. Acad. Sci., January, 1904.
