3IO SNODGRASS AND HELLER
teur-lee* ', teur-lee', teur-lee', teur-lee', nearly always consisting of four
sets. This was similar to one of the songs of the birds at Tagus Cove
on Albemarle, but the birds there seldom uttered more than two sets
in succession. The Seymour birds were not heard to utter this song
with the first syllable accented a form of song so common with the
Tagus Cove birds. Still another song resembled tee'-iuee-ivee, tee'-
wee-'wee, fee'-wee-ivee.
On Charles Island this species was very common. In going up the
trail from Black Beach Landing to the higher central part of the
island the birds were found to be much more abundant along the
second half than lower down where other forms predominated. In
fact, only a few specimens of this species were found below the spring
on the trail, situated perhaps a third or more of the distance up, while
from here to the top it was by far the most common Geospiza species.
We were at Charles Island during the first of May. A very common
song resembled ten-wink' , teu-wtnk' . The second syllable had a de-
cidedly different sound from anything heard elsewhere. They also
sang sfcee'-ivee, skee'-wee, skee'-wee, or something of this sort ; it being
much the same in character as the common teur'-wee at Tagus Cove,
differing from this conspicuously? however, in the consonant sound of
the first syllable.
On Duncan Island this species was the only common Geospiza. It
was abundant within the crater, but ouside of it was scarce.
We have eight nests of Geospiza fuliginosa parvula taken about
Tagus Cove on Albemarle Island during March. They are all very
similar and resemble in shape the nest of Camarhynchus crassirostris
already described. All are large, having the longest diameter vertical,
varying in height from one hundred and forty to two hundred milli-
meters, and in width from ten to twelve millimeters. The entrance is
generally oval and mostly above the middle of the side, being gener-
ally about fifty by forty millimeters in dimensions with the longer
diameter vertical. The nest is entirely and thickly roofed over above,
and often the part above the entrance is almost overhanging. The
front is generally more or less flattened. The nests are never suspended,
being always supported from below, but may have accessory lateral
braces. Nests from Tagus Cove and Iguana Cove, Albemarle, are
composed of slender stems of small plants, stems of vines, grasses
and bark of larger soft plants. Four nests have interwoven all through
the coarser material numerous bits of cotton plucked from the cotton
bushes, which are abundant at both places. The cotton in the nests is
all in isolated heads detached from their stems. Leaves are very sel-
