320 SNODGRASS AND HELLER
or the southeast part of Albemarle, for these are the only localities that
collectors up to that time had visited. Specimens from Tagus Cove
do not differ from specimens of G. fortis fortis of the other islands.
Some of those from southeast Albemarle have rather longer and deeper
bills, but they grade into G. forth platyrkyncka of Iguana Cove at
the southwest end of Albemarle. Hence there are two varieties on
Albemarle, but these are G. f. fortis and G. f. platycephala. If
the type of G. albemarlei had come from Iguana Cove, then this
name could be retained.
Our specimens of this species are from Charles, Chatham, James,
Indefatigable, Seymour, Albemarle and Narboro. The species was
found most abundant on Charles, James, Albemarle and Narboro.
We have twenty two specimens of adult males taken at Tagus
Cove in January, February and March. They are in Stages III to
VI. There are two in Stage III, taken in March; two in Stage IV,
taken in January and one taken in March ; four in Stage V, taken in
March and one taken in January ; and six in Stage VI, taken in Janu-
ary, one taken in February and four taken in March.
Adult Males. Coloration almost exactly the same as in Geosplza
fuliginosa parvula. Deep black everywhere except on the wings
and tail, which have a brownish tone. Under tail coverts bordered
with white. In some there is a varying amount of grayish color on
the posterior part of the belly and on the flanks as pale edgings to the
feathers; in such cases the entire exposed parts of the under tail
coverts are gray. This pale color generally lacks the buffy tinge
present in G. fuliginosa. Bill black. Feet brown.
The same plumage stages are distinguishable as in G. fuliginosa,
but all the specimens except one, even down to those in Stage III,
have the bill entirely black. One specimen intermediate between
Stages V and VI, however, has the lower mandible yellow with black
only on the sides of the base and at the base of the gonys. There is
in no stage any buffy tinge to the pale parts of the plumage, a mark
distinguishing the species from G. fuliginosa. There are only three
young males in the collection taken in January ; two of these are in
Stage IV, one has yellow on the lower mandible ; the other is in
Stage V. March birds are in Stages III to VI. The yellow-billed
January bird has a few new feathers coming in on the back and breast ;
the other January specimens are not moulting. None of the March
birds are moulting.
The males of this species apparently are longer in acquiring the
black plumage than are the males of G. fuliginosa. The bill becomes
