322 SNODGRASS AND HELLER
the edges of the feathers of the belly. The occurrence of these forms
after the breeding season would indicate that the purely black plumage
is not acquired until during the second year. Another specimen is a
male in Stage V, and another a male in Stage IV. Both of these
have black bills and are moulting. There is one adult female with a
black bill, and finally one young bird in Stage II with a yellow bill.
These specimens indicate the same thing concerning the acquisition of
black as do the specimens from Tagus Cove, Albemarle, viz., that
the bills of the males are nearly always black by the breeding season,
but that the plumage may be only in Stages V or IV.
We have twenty specimens of Geospiza fortis from James Island,
taken in April about James Bay. All of them apparently belong to
the subspecies G. f. fortis, being the same as those at Tagus Cove.
We have no specimens from James that we could identify as G. f.
bauri. Nine of the specimens are adult males, all having black bills,
but some are in the black phase of Stage VI and others in the brown-
ish. Several in each phase are moulting. One male in Stage V and
two in Stage IV are each moulting slightly, all having black bills.
Three are adult females, one with a black bill, two with the bill
dusky above and paler brownish beneath. Five are young birds but
recently from the nest, all in Stage II with yellow bills and soft
plumage, and all are moulting.
From Charles there are in the collection twelve specimens taken
in May. Eleven of them clearly belong to the subspecies G.f. for-
tis. One, however, an immature male with the lower mandible yel-
low, has a bill much larger than that of the others and resembling the
bill of G. fortis dubia of Chatham. This specimen may perhaps be
G. fortis simillima (Rothschild and Hartert). Five of the Charles
specimens are adult males ; two are immature males in Stage IV ; four
are adult females; and one is an immature female, having the lower
mandible yellow and a few new feathers growing in.
Habits, Song, Nests and Eggs. At Tagus Cove, Albemarle,
Geospiza fortis fortis was found fairly abundant, associating with
G. fuliginosa parvula, but was always much less numerous than
this species. The songs of the two were different but not radically
so, being often very similar, and were always constructed on the same
plan. One song consisted of two syllables of which the first had
an e-sound (there) and was much prolonged by a sort of 7--like trill,
while the second had a long e sound and carried the accent. The song
may be represented thus : ter-r-r-r-ivee 1 , ter-r-r-r-ivee 1 . The birds
were singing but little at this time, and were very scarce in the man-
grove swamps about Turtle Point.
