BIRDS 323
During March the birds at Tagus Cove were nesting and the males
were singing much more than in January. A common song at this
time resembled teur'-ivee-ivee, ieu^-wee-ivee, teur' -ivee-ivee. The
accent was always conspicuously placed on the first syllable in each
set. Often all these notes resembled the first, or this was only slightly
different from the other two. In this case the song much resembled
that of the Elizabeth Bay Geospiza heliobates. This song, having all
the notes nearly alike, was connected by numerous intermediate vari-
eties with the other. They sang also a bisyllabic song resembling
t-wer-t-wer, twer-twer. This was much like the song of the Geo-
spiza heliobates of the Narboro and Turtle Point swamps. The vowel
sound, however, differed noticeably in the two, that of the former
lacking the pure er sound of the latter.
About the middle of March Geospiza for tis for tis was found rather
numerous in the mangrove swamp north of Tagus hill. They were
continually singing a song sounding like tee'-iver-wer, tee'-wer-iver,
tee'-wer-wer. Nearly always three sets were uttered in succession.
We shot a male that was uttering the sound almost continually, and
flying all the time from tree to tree ranging back and forth over a con-
siderable area. Others were heard doing the same. They varied the
vowel sound of the syllables so much that often the first had the sound
of the second and third and these two the sound of the first, thus :
tur-tvee-ivee. Sometimes, especially when the bird observed was at a
considerable distance, all three syllables had the e or u sound, and then
the song much resembled the song of the G. heliobates at Elizabeth
Bay. In such cases, however, the initial consonant sound of the first
syllable is generally different from that of the second and third sylla-
bles, thus : tur'-ivur-ivur, tur'-ivur-ivur, tur'-iviir-'wur.
During March a mated pair of these birds selected an acacia bush
in the small canyon at the head of Tagus Cove as their home for that
season. The male constructed the nest, the female taking no part in
the actual labor ; but she frequently came about while the nest was
being built, apparently to inspect and approve or disapprove of the
work of her partner. The latter never worked hard at the nest but
spent most of his time flying excitedly about and singing, working
only occasionally. Whenever the female came to the nest he quit
work entirely to remain near her and to fly about with her. This pair
was observed for a number of days and at all times during the morn-
ing. The male whenever heard sang the same thing, a song which
may be represented as follows : zee n u-tivee"u. The difference between
the initial consonants of the two parts was very marked and scarcely
