f-HALCID PARASITES OF Al'STKALIAX SHEEP ?.[AGGOT-FLIES. 115
During February a sheep's head, spht down the middle.
A\as put into a box of dry soil, and infested entirely with
Pycnosoma riififacies and P. varipes. After about six days,
the head was hfted and about 100 blowfly pupse counted ;
as the experiment was intended for other purposes (as described
below) the pupse beneath the soil were not counted, but it is
significant that after several days thousands of Pycnosomas
hatched, the bottom of a box. 2 ft. by H ft., being UteraUy
green with them.
In April results were obtained A\iiich seem to show the
effect of heavy rain on puliation. The sheep's heads were
])laced in a box, and became duly infested with Opliyra nigra,
Sarcophaga spp., Pycnosoma riififacies, and Lvcilia sericata.
Heavy rain fell, the whole contents of the box becoming
thoroughly Avet. One portion of the box was more wet than
the remainder ; it contained no pupse. No pupse occurred
on the surface anywhere in the box, but were all found at a
depth of from f to 1 inch beloAv the surface where the soil was
least wet. Below this the soil was wetter, and only six pupse
Avere discovered in it, but in the relatively drier region above
tliis level several hundred were counted. As several thousand
pupse had been expected a search was made in the soil
surrounding the box, and as a result great accumulations of
pupse of all the species were found buried in the soil to the dej)th
of one inch under sheltering boards close beside the box. Un-
protected soil to a distance of 5 feet from the box was examined
and showed the presence of numerous fly-pupse. It would
seem, therefore, that during rainy weather the conditions for
Xasonia are even more unfavourable, since, though the maggots
do not bury themselves so far down in the soil, none pupate
on the surface. If these experiments are confirmed under
sheep-country conditions, then this chalcid cannot be regarded
as even a serious check on the spread of sheep blowfhes.
These experiments do not take account of another serious
deficiency on the part of Xasonia, viz., the alleged inactivity
of the parasite at the very time that the fhes are at their worst
(Report of Blowfly Committee, Institute of Science and
Industry, December, 1920).^ Possibly this is accounted for by
-As this painphlet is not readily available to workers, we deem it
advisable to republish the statements relating to the work of Nasonia
at INIr. W. Russell's sheep station, Dalmallj', near Roma, Queensland : —
"As occasionally over 80 per cent, of the blowfly pupse are found to be
