116 I'ROCEEDIXGS OF THK KOVAr, SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
the following facts : — Increased fly activity generally means
a decrease in the length of the life-cycle (especially the im-
mature stages, owing to favourable conditions of temperature
and moisture) and incidentally of the pupal period. For
Pycyiosoma mfifacies and P. varipes this latter period is 4| days
during the summer months, becoming as low as 3 clays (on
an average 4 days) during the most favourable weather (Feb-
ruary).^ The egg period of Xasonia in Brisbane during this
time is 40 hours. It follows that, of these 3 or 4 days which the
fly passes in the pupal stage and during which the chalcid
can act against the fly, nearly two days are occupied in the
hatching of the parasites egg. Hence, unless the pupae are
attacked within 24 to 30 hours after pupation, they are prac-
tically safe from destruction by Xasonia ; indeed, we have
the paradoxical conception of the pupae of Pycnosoma, during
this period, acting as a most efficient chalcid-destroyer — in
other words, as a "' Nasonia-trap," in that at least half the
chalcid eggs deposited must be Avasted, unless, of course, the
wasp will instinctivel}^ refuse to oviposit in advanced pupae. ^
The immunity of Pycnosoma to Xasonia attack was exhibited
by the following experiment, carried out in February, 1921.
when Pycnosoma spp. are the dominating blowflies in Brisbane.
A split sheep's head was placed in a box of soil and allowed to
killed by this parasite, it should have a marked effect in controlling the
increase of the flies, but vuifortiuiately the Chalcid ^^'asp seems to 1k^
dormant at the very time the flies are worst. Very much has yet to be
learned of the life-history of both flies and parasites. This tends to
show that although it must be a check, yet it cannot in the "light of present
knowledge be cla.ssed as an overwhelming check. At Dalmally, in the
height of the attack of the present year, Chalcids were not to be found.
Then at the end of September they began to show in the breeding cages
and are now (December, 1920) breeding in big numbers. Even if the
Chalcids be responsible for the abatement of the fly trouble since October,
it was quiescent when the principal losses in sheep occurred. We conclude
therefore that while Chalcids are certainly a check, they are not, in the
light of our present knowledge, important enough to supersede the
jetting process."
3 J. F. lUingworth in an aiticle. •• The Australian Sheep Fly
in Hawaii " (Proc. Ent. Soc. Hawaii. 1917 (1918), 3, p. 429 ; Abstr. n
Rev. Appl. Ent., B., 6, p. 163) referred to the rapid development there
during July. A dead animal was expo.sed on 16th July, larva? hatched
out next morning, and three days later entered the soil to pupate, tin-
pupal stage occupying about six days.
* Alt son (1920, p. 224) states that Xa,so7ua .shows preference for
pupae between 24 and 72 hours old for oviposition. We have found that
the wasp will readily oviposit in living blowfly pupae of any age.
