CHALCID PARxVSITES OF AUSTRALIAN SHEEP MAGGOT-FLIES. 119
1-2 mm. in length. All measurements given below refer to a
large form 1-8 mm. long. The wasp is easily recognised by its
sliiny-black upper surface and pale-brown under surface
(figs^l, 11).
Head (fig. 13). — Height -6 mm. ; breadth -.5 mm. ; length
•32 mm. Depth of eyes about half that of head. Distance of
ventral portion of eyes to mouth twice that of dorsal part to
vertex. Head shiny black with very faint reticulate pattern ;
the numerous bristles generally lodged in small depressions.
Ocelli large and prominent, nearer to eyes than to one another.
Frons with a deep depression. Clypeus gently convex. In-
sertion of antennae on a level with lowest part of eyes, their
distance from one another equal to their distance from the
eyes.
Eyes bare ; about fourteen bristles immediately around
orbit ; two vertical bristles in line A\ith posterior ocelli. Front
with about fifty other bristles.
Mandibles shiny black, long (-216 mm.) and prominent,
tridentate, the anterior tooth very small ; the middle one
larger and prominent, the lowest somewhat smaller ; all very
obtuse (fig. 14). Mandibles provided Mith twelve bristles.
Maxilla short, foliaceous. covered with about twenty hairs
on upper surface. Palps pale brown, long and prominent,
last joint especially large. Submentum not prominent ; the
mentum somewhat triangular and provided with a row of short
bristles. Labial i)alps rather small, with three joints of which
the second is the smallest. ^lentum with prominent but short
ridges.
Length of antennee -88 mm. ; maximum breadth 06 mm.
Ten joints including ring-joint. Scape slender, about -25 mm.
in length, shghtly broader at tip than at base, moderately
bristly, brown. Pedicel about one-third length of scape, very
conical. Ring-joint ver}?- indistinct, about 02 mm. long.
The following six joints very dark brown and heavily clad
with short bristles ; the proximal one oval, the others gradually
shortening, the most distal dome-shaped. Club 3-jointed.
•16 mm. in length (tig. 12).
"Thorax." — Shiny black above, light brown below :
pronotum prominent, length about half that of head ; with
delicate transverse striations. Mesothorax about thrice the
length of pronotum ; as the anterior part of the pronotum
projects into the posterior concavity of head, and also is longer
at the sides than dorsally, the mesothorax appears, in dorsal
