120 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
view, nearly six times the length of the prone turn. Scutelluni
very prominent, about two-thirds the length of scutum.
Scutum distinctly ridged ; pronotum faintly striated ; scutellum
smooth. In the middle of the scutellum on either side of the
mid-Hne, the chitinous plate has a pair of small circular holes.
The ventral side of thorax hght brown, shiny. From the
postero-ventral region of the pronotum a thin plate, pale brown
in colour and rather transparent, is given off backwardly,
reaching so far back as to overlap the tegulae ventrally. Pro-
bably the anterior .spiracle Ues beneath this plate ; a similar
structure is developed along the whole of the ventral portion
of the mesonotum, and overlaps a portion of the last coxa ;
it is Hght broAvn in colour, much stronger than the similar
extension from the pronotum, and appears to be hollow. The
second spiracle is probably hidden beneath this structure.
From the metathorax a similar overlapping structure is
developed, but it is much smaller. Immediately behind it lies
the third spiracle : just above it is a small cluster of silvery
hairs. Pronotum with a row of 18 short (9 and 9), scutum
with 56 (28-28) rather long bristles ; scutellum with 22 (11-11)
moderately long bristles on anterior half, a pair on the border,
three-quarters the distance to distal end, and a j)air of rather
long scutellar apicals. Tegulae each with three bristles.
Legs brown. — First leg : Coxa largest, powerful : breadth
half the length ; thirteen bristles externally, and two rows of
small bristles on posterior (inner) margin. Trochanter half
the length of coxa ; double -jointed ; hairless. Femur rather
.short, twice the length of coxa and thick-set ; with four rows of
moderately long bristles. Tibia one and a half times the length
of coxa, sUghtly broader distally than proximally ; spur as
long as that of second leg, but considerably weaker, with five
rows of moderately long bristles. Tarsus nearly as long as
iemur, the five joints very hairy ; claws not markedly large. —
Second leg : Coxa longer but less stout than in first leg ;
pro\-ided with six longitudinal rows of bristles. Trochanter
long, double- jointed, hairless. Femur as long as first femur,
but rather weaker ; with six longitudinal rows of bristles.
Tibia long (-56 mm.), thinner than femur ; with five rows of
bristles, the enlarged tibial spur very faintly serrated at its
inner distal end. First tarsal joint much elongated ; claws
small. — Third leg : Coxa exceedingly stout, a httle longer than
})road, with a faint reticulation ; six rows of short bristles.
