CHALCID PARASITES OF AUSTRALIAN SHEEP MAGGOT-FLIES. 121
Trochanter single -jointed and with five rows of bristles. Femur
about as long as first, but bulging strongly in middle, with
six rows of bristles. Tibia a little shorter than second ; bristly ;
first tibial joint much elongated, claws small.
Wings {fig. 15). — Fore wings : Length 1-44 mm., breadth
•77 mm. Submarginal : marginal : post- marginal : stigmal =
37 : 5 : 6 : 8. Length of submarginal -59 mm. Submarginal
with fourteen large bristles, those in middle of vein the largest.
^Marginal and post- marginal ^^ith three rows of rather shorter
bristles. Stigmal with eight bristles ; its termination
broadened, angular, hooked and bluntly pointed, 4-punctate
as figured. Anterior border strongly ciUated. Whole wing
ciliated, except posterior border and a small area anterior to
this. — Hind wings : Length -96 mm., breadth -32 mm. The
distal marginal part of the wing- vein 3 mm. long ; the distal
submarginal portion very sHghtly longer and rather trans-
parent, and with two punctures. A row of eleven bristles
immediately anterior to it. Wing ciliated, except for a clear
area at base of wing.
Abdomen shining black, marked with a dehcate reticulum.
Rather broader than thorax, and clorsoventrally compressed.
First tergite as long as the next tw'o together. Second, third,
and fourth tergites all about equal in length. Fifth rather
longer, and partly overlapping the more anterior ones, being
very concave in dorsal view. First tergite with five pairs of
bristles laterally ; sternum with very numerous short bristles,
and three pairs of longer bristles posteriorly. Second tergite
A\ith a transverse row of seven moderately large bristles on
either side ; five pairs on sternum. Third tergite with a
transverse row of seven bristles on either side and a very long
bristle laterally ; three pairs on sternum. Fourth tergite
with a row of six bristles on either side ; sternum with a group
of eight pairs. The fifth tergite very bristly ; anteriorly
a row of four bristles on either side ; posterior to these a row
of five larger bristles ; a marginal row of twelve bristles on
either side ; the most anterior part of the tergite with a small
rounded thickened chitinous area bearing five large bristles.
Sternum with five pairs of bristles. The termination of the
ovipositor provided with a marginal row of ten bristles. Point
of ovipositor sharp ; no serrations present ; length -45 mm. ;
free posterior part of sheath 16 mm.
