122 rROCEEDIXGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
Description of Male.
The male closely resembles the female in general appear-
ance and size. It differs in the following characters : —
•Length of antenna (fig. 12) greater, being about 1-2 mm. ;
scape very slightly shorter than in female, measuring about
•24 mm. in length ; next joint, corresponding to the pedicel,
very short, -08 mm. in length ; tliird joint -16 mm. in length.
The following seven joints about equal in length, measuring-
•096 mm. ; the most distal joint not club-shaped, l)ut some-
what conical mth apex of cone distally, without any sign of
di^^sion into three parts such as occurs in female. Length of
mandibles about the same as in female ; teeth slightly more
acute.
Thorax as in female. First coxa shaped as in female ;
seven large marginal bristles, ten smaller externally, numerous
minute bristles internally. Trochanter single -jointed, two
bristles on dorsal distal end. Femur with three rows of bristles,
and an indication of a fourth row. Second trochanter very
short, single -jointed, hairless. Bristles of second femur weak.
Tibial spur weaker than in female.
Wings as in female, except that the stigmal vein is vevy
slightly shorter, the termination a httle more hammer-shaped.
Size exactly as in female.
The tliird abdominal segment bears ventro-laterally a
very long bristle, even longer than in female. The penis is
rather long, about equal in length to the terminal part of the
ovipositor of female.
The biology of tliis little wasp has been described in an
earlier part of this paper, the various immature stages being
figured (figs. 9, 16, 17, 25, 26).
Systematically the insect belongs to the Chalcidoid familj^
Enc^^rtidse, sub-family Encyrtinae, tribe Mirini of Ashmead, or
Enc;yrtini (as considered by Girault, 1915). It does not fall
into any of the genera as given in either Ashmead's or Girault's
keys. We therefore propose to establish for its reception a new
genus, Australencyrtus, \vith A. giraulti as type. Mr. A. A.
Girault, the well-known authority on chalcid waspS; informs
us that it comes near Perkins's genus Eckthrogonartopus. It
differs from that genus, however, chiefly in that the club is
distinctlv shorter than the funicle : the frontal region between
