CHALCID PARASITES OF AUSTRALIAN SHEEP MAGGOT-FLIES. 123
the eyes is considerably wider than the width of eyes, and
the scutellum is not sculptured ; while the post -marginal vein
is very slightly shorter than stignial.
Type specimens (allotype and holotype) deposited in the
Queensland Museum, Brisbane. Bred from various blowfly
pupse in Brisbane.
Paraspilomicrus froggatti n. gen., n. sp. (Proctotrypoidea —
Family Diapriida^). (Figs. 4, 8, 18, 19.)
Description of 31 ale.
Length 1-7 mm. (excluding antennge) ; shining black.
Head. — Length -34 mm. ; height -45 mm. ; breadth -37
mm. Frons not protruding in front of eye. Eye rather small,
bare, distant its own height from mouth ; depth less than half
the height of head. OceUi very prominent, as near to each
other as to eyes. Head smooth, sliiny black, without pattern,
with numerous short bristles. Antennae (fig. 18) inserted on a
marked prominence ; very long (I- 15 mm.), consisting of
thirteen joints ; scape -32 mm. long ; pedicel and next two
joints about equal (-08 mm.) ; remaining joints shorter, broader,
and rounded, last elongated and conical, the whole covered
with numerous rather short bristles. Palps long, brown,
terminal segments slightly longer than sub-terminal ; both
bearing six setae.
TJiorax. — Length two and a half times the breadth.
Tegulse very prominent, forming large angular prominences at
sides. Pronotal neck short, with longitudinal shallow excava-
tions ; pronotum itself hardly visible from above. Scutum
smooth, shiny black, without any pattern ; parapsidal furrows
very prominent ; rather wider than long ; with a small number
of moderately long, brown rechnate bristles, developing into
a more pronounced growth laterally just behind pronotum.
Scutellum four-fifths length of scutum, with a hght growth of
hairs ; a pair of large square depressions on either side of
mid-line, just beliind scutum ; and a transverse row of nine
small rounded depressions crossing the scutellum two-thirds
the distance from anterior end. Behind these, a row of four
larger rectangular depressions. Epinotum \\\i\v a complete
median longituchnal carina ; with four irregular ridged de-
pressions laterally. Petiole with a complete median carina
and two pairs of longitudinal depressions on either side, more
