2 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OP QUEENSLAND,
crops. A leading recommendation of the Commission was
that the utiUty as stock feeds of the prickly pears mthin the
State should be investigated.
The principal naturalised opuntia of Queensland is 0.
inermis, a variety with few spines, though its abundant fine
prickle necessitates preparation before feeding to stock. 0.
inermis was employed by the author in the trials with steers,
dairy cows, and sheep here detailed. The trials with steers
(1916) enabled a conclusion to be arrived at with regard to the
wholesomeness and palatabiUty of prickly pear, and were a
useful preliminary to the work with dairy cows. The dairy
herd experiments (1917) were designed to test the value of
prickly pear as a roughage in rations for milk production. The
sheep experimentation (1917) constitutes, it is beheved, the
first systematic trials of prickly pear with sheep recorded.
PART I.— PRICKLY PEAR IN THE RATIONS OF
STEERS.
Plan of Experiment.
The animals employed in the experiments were eighteen
mature steers, principally of Shorthorn and Hereford strains.
The beasts were stall fed and kept in an enclosure bare of
herbage. The prickly iDcar was harvested and passed through
a power-driven Texan pear-slicer before feeding, but not
otherwise prepared.
The main trials are described as maintenance trials, but,
the rations providing generally nutriment in excess of that
necessary to merely preserve body weight, they are such in
the economic rather than the strict physiological sense. Two
series were conducted, viz. : — One in the winter season when a
small amount of hay was provided as roughage in addition to
prickly pear ; the second in spring when, after recognition of
the restriction by other feeds of the prickly pear consumed, the
feeds supplementing prickly pear were limited to concentrates
or legume hay for the supply of necessary protein.
The insufficiency of prickly pear alone for the mainten-
ance of beasts was demonstrated in the first trials.
The recognition of the importance of palatabiUty of a feed
in its evaluation led to some study of the appetite displayed
by experimental animals for prickly pear. The number of
