CHALCID PARASITES OP AUSTRALIAN SHEEP :MA(iGOT-FLIES. 125
stigmal vein very short (-024 mm.), 4-punctate, and Avitli one
long bristle. Rest of venation very poorly developed. Heavily
ciliated especially posteriorly ; on proximal part the dilation
is very sparse. Length of posterior A\dng -96 mm.
Abdomen. — Epinotum and petiole described in connection
with thorax. Rest of abdomen long and slender, about as
long as thorax, with scattered hairs ventrally and post-dor-
sally ; smooth and shiny black ; termination sharply pointed.
Description of Female. (Fig. 8.)
This closely resembles the male, the most pronovuiced
differences being in regard to the antennae. Scape, pedicel, and
next joint similar to those of male. The following two joints
considerably smaller than in female, equal in size, rounded ;
the remaining joints gradvially becoming longer and broader :
terminal joint conical giving the whole antenna a slightly club-
shaped appearance.
Systematic Position. — It has been considered necessary to
erect for the reception of this species a new genus near Hemilexis
Foerster, Spilomicriis Westwood, and Hemilexomyia Dodd.
The name ParaspiJomicrus is proposed.
Generic Characters. — Antennae 13-jointed ; scape unarmed ;
antenna in female somewhat club-shaped, last joint short and
conical. Head not punctate, smooth ; no ridges on temples ;
pronotum short ; mesonotum slightly convex laterally, smooth ;
not ridged. Scutellum with two small prominent basal de-
pressions, and laterally from each a larger shallow indistinct
depression. Two transverse rows of small depressions towards
posterior end of scutellum. Petiole abput twice as long as
broad ; the large abdominal segment overlaps petiole dorsally,
abdomen somewhat pointed, not truncate. Fore wing with
pronounced submarginal vein ; marginal vein thick and short,
about twice as long as thick. Stigmal vein very short, punctate,
rest of venation practically obsolete. T3'pe : Paraspilomicnis
froggatti Johnston and Tiegs, 1921.
The specific name is intended as a tribute to ]Mr. W. W.
Froggatt, Government Entomologist of New South Wales, w ho
has done so much to increase our knowledge of sheep maggot-
fly parasites.
Bred from pupae of Lucilia spp., Brisbane, November,
1920. Holotype and allotype have been deposited in the
Queensland Museum, Brisbane.
