n;^0 ]'K(KKEI)l\(iS OK TllK HOVAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAM).
encaustic and mosaic tile-works. Here he realised my uncannj'
faculty for nosing out the boundaries of clay-heds, and from
that time, he a man of learning and originality, fostered my
peculiarity, initiating me in many a ramble into the mysteries
of vegetable physiology and insect lore, training me to use the
microscope, and to handle mathematical and optical instru-
ments familiarly.
My first teacher in geology Avas Ralph Tate, who died
not long since Professor of Geology in the University (jf
Adelaide ; but mj'' real teacher was Sir A. C. Ramsay, for many
years aftenvards my chief on the Geological Survey of England.
Huxley built up m^^ biology, and. I think, never quite forgave
me for eschewing Natural History for my first love, Geology.
Prof. Partridge kept my human anatomy bright. Dr. Duncan
lured me with corals, and delighted me by allowing me to
help name some of Darwdn's corals from the '' Beagle" voyage.
Bates, an old family friend, had come back from the Amazons,
and to his d3dng day never realised that I had grown up and
could walk upright. Faraday used to visit my father. All
my days were spent with scientists, artists, poets, and (for my
sins) politicians. What a childhood it was !
But the crux of my life Avas my connection Avith the
Tylor brothers, Alfred and Edward. The North London
Railway had run a line through the contorted gravels of
Hackney Downs. Here to niN^ delight I found not only Mam-
moth bones and Urus but a rich deposit of freshwater shells.
I carefully drew the section, collected and named the shells.
But one ]DUzzled me. It was a stranger, and I dared to ho])e
it might be Cyremi fluminalis, not now living nearer than the
Nile (where to my delight I afterwards found it) but known
in a few of the older pleistocene beds of England and France.
I see, in the mind's eye, a timid lad of thirteen with a box of
shells, knocking quietly at a door in Paradise Row, Stoke
Newington, having screwed liis courage to call uninvited upon
the rich Quaker geologist who lived there. I was ushered into
a fascinating room, half library and half museum, and
tremblingly awaited the coming of the great man. He looked
at my shells and took me right into his warm heart. He was
my true father in science ; his house in town and country was
my second home, and afterw ards my only one ; and till 1
dropped a few gravel pebbles on his cofhn, his love and wisdom
Avere my pride and stay. As an engineer he drilled me into
