GLACIAr. MAX. — SKERTCIILY. 131
accuracy of measurements of distances, depths, and angles.
A section to Mm was no sketch unconsciously modified to
tally with hypothesis : it must be a portrait. This lesson
lias stayed with me. In that study, that eventful night, I saw
my first palaeohthic implement (exhibited). Tylor taught me to
use theodolite, level, and chnometer ; his books and specimens
were at my disposal, and patiently he led me over all the
])leistocene and recent beds of the Thames valley, and these
and those of Northern France I carefully examined, levelled
for him or with him. Alfred Tjior was both geologist and
anthropologist, but the lustre of Sir Edward his younger
l)rother"s name has overshadowed the fame of the greater
Alfred. Only in one way, save in love, could I recompense
him : I dedicated my '' Physical System of the Universe' to
him, and, good simple soul, he used to carry a copy of it about
with Mm and show iolka the title-page ; and when DarAvin
and Wallace wrote congratulating me he was if possible more
]ileased than I was. For more than two -score years the winds
have sung a requiem through the oak-leaves over his grave,
and I have grown old and widowed ; but in dreams each
mght as I press my lonely pillow , two faces come to me. my
sweet wife's and Alfred Tylor's. and when in the not distant
years I too am but a shade I fain would that some of ni}^
friends may carry kindly memories of me, if but in dreams.
Largely through Alfred Tylor"s influence I had the
inestimable advantage of spending a year as Librarian and
Diagram-maker at the Geological Society. Here I made the
acquaintance of the great founders of Geology — Sedgwick —
PhiUips, MurcMson, and above all of Sir CTiarles LyeU, the
true father of modem geologj^, the founder of the Tertiarj-
system, the great expounder of the action of existing forces,
tlie inspirer of Darwin. Lyell was very good to me, and used
to come, ask in Ms immitably modest way if I could spare a
httle time for a chat ! Fancy it I Spare time ! I could have
sat at Ms feet a lifetime. He used to teU me all Ms early
struggles to drive out the perniciously convement cataclysms
and convulsions of nature that accounted so easily for cHff
and gorge and contorted rock. His pMlosopMcal brain poured
out to me of its vast stores, and warned me of many pitfalls,
many a cul-de-sac in reasomng. To Lyell, next to Alfred Tylor,
I am in grateful bondage still : they can never be repaid.
At the Geological Society I acquired a thorough knowledge
