GLACIAL MAN. — SKERTCHLY. 133
iiighest point south of Bab-el-Mandeb. It was a glorious
confirmation of Lyell's views, Avhich led to Darwin's theory
and confirmed its general truth. My letters to Darwin on this
quite new evidence gratified liim and led to a long friendship.
Retuniing to Cairo Sir Sanniel Baker asked me to take
a branch of his Soudan expedition (via Sowakim) to Berber
across the desert, as I was acquainted with some of the way
-and the natives knew me. This was a thing after my own heart,
but family matters called me home, and my friend Higgin-
bottom, an engineer, gladly accepted the post and, alas, died
en route. I left Egypt with profound regret, but carried with
me the memory of two grand sections, the Great Rift Valle\-.
and the Suez Canal, then being dug, and along much of whose
bed I have walked.
Returning to England I at once joined the Geological
Survey, and to Ramsay's joy selected the Fenland for my
field of work, as it was the most extensive area of newer rocks
in the Idngdom, and being supposed to be a compost of gravel,
bog, £ind ague, no one had volunteered to survey it, nor had
our good chief the temerity to order any of his men into its
(reputed) wastes. Here I spent four happy years at mv
favourite study of recent geology, gaining a thorough acquaint-
ance with what might be called the neolithic series. In the
fens I met my first master in working flint. It was that
unmitigated scamp Flint Jack, an expert Avhose forgeries are
in every museum and well-nigh every private collcGtion from
John o'Groats to Land's End. I last saw him in Piccadilly
garbed in a rusty brown coat as appropriately as a hedgehog
in lace. He told me with tears how in liis old age he had
repented him of the evil that he had done, and was going to
an honoured grave as an honest man in constant employment —
making Egyptian antiquities for the trade. He was an irre-
claimable rascal, but oh ! he was an expert in flint.
By this time surely I was peculiarly fitted for the task
that all unknown lay before me. The two Tylors and Lyell
had trained and moulded my strange taste for Post-Tertiary
geology ; travel had widened my outlook ; four years steady
Avork in the fens had given me experience, and I was now
ready for what I may perhaps not immodestly term my great
work. Certainly no hving being had my special training,
and the difficulty of interpreting the evidence is shown by
the fact that it has taken forty years for geologists and
