134 I'KOCKEDIXGS OF.TIIR KOVAL SOCIETY OK QUEENSLAND.
anthropologists to reach the point I had arrived at in 1878,
forty-three years ago, when I made my first announcement of
my discoveries in Nature, vol. xvi, pp. 142, 163.
Having finished my ^lemoir of the Fens I went up to
Brandon in Suffolk on its borders, a place already renowned
for the pala^ohthic and neolithic iinplements its neighbourhood
had yielded. It is now necessary to state briefly the condition
of pubHc and scientific o})inion in those da3'S.
PUBLIC OPINION, LAY AND SCIENTIFIC.
The mild and friendly criticism which to-day does duty
for the old odium theologicum is hardly generically homologous
with the triumphant venomous outpourings against science
in general and geology in particular that in my young days
did duty for orthodoxy. Even at the social board a grim
silence fell if anyone rashly uttered the word '" Evolution."'
In 1872 I pubhshed my little Manual of Physical Geography,
with wliich the vice-president of the Royal Geographical
Society was pleased to be pleased. He was a merchant in a
large way, and ordered some hundred copies to gratify Tylor
and do me a good turn. But finding something about evolution
at the end of it he countermanded the order. No wonder
Darwin wrote to Hooker, " I begin to think every man is a
fool who w rites a book." You smile at this, but I didn't at the
time, but to understand my position it is incumbent that you
realise the atmosphere of the seventies.
In the geological world things were as follows : — The
Geological Survey began its work in Cornwall and South
Wales, where the pleistocene beds cover but a small area :
and as nobody took much interest in them — save in the tin
gravels— they were generally ignored on the maps, and all
of them, sands, gravels, and clays, lumped together imder the
comprehensive term '' Drift." Hence the implements from
the gravels were called '" drift implements." As the survey
extended northwards these drift- beds took up greater and
oreater space, till bj^ the time we were fairly among the glacial
beds they occupied pretty well as much ground as those
euphemistically called " solid " beds. Still we were expected
to ignore them, consequently maps Avere issued with dotted
boundaries where the solid beds ran under the drifts, till
finally some of the maps showed limestones and sandstones
