PRICKLY PEAR AS STOCK FEED. — SMITH. 6
individuals employed therein was small, but was considered
sufficient to enable the factors bj^ which appetite might be
influenced to be well discerned.
The effect of administration of water to pear-fed animals
was investigated during the second trials, when the progress
of watered and unwatered animals was compared.
The continuance of prickly pear feeding for from seven to
eight months provided ground for pronouncement on the effect
of the feed on the health of animals, judged both by their
obvious condition at the end of the feeding and by post mortem
appearance.
Maintenance Trials. Feeds Consumed Daily and
Alteration of Body Weights.
First Trials (50-70 days). — Four groups of animals were
utUised, viz. : — (1) Three animals received pricldy pear alone ;
(2) five animals received prickly pear \\ith a httle hay roughage ;
(3) six prickly pear, a httle hay, and meal ; (4) four prickly
pear, hay, and legume hay. The prickly pear was of 8G-87 per
cent, water content, and as much was suppUed as was eaten.
The meal was hnseed meal or cocoanut cake. The hay was
wheaten and pamcum hay, fed chaffed ; the legume, chaffed
lucerne hay. The data for the trials are given in Table 1.
Second Trials (50-55 day<i). — The disposition of the experi-
mental animals was as follows : — (1) Seven received pricldy
pear and chaffed lucerne hay ; (2) eleven received prickly pear
and meal (either hnseed meal, cocoanut cake, or maize ger m-
meal). As much prickly pear was given as was eaten, and no
hay roughage was supplied. The prickly pear varied in water
content from 82-86 per cent. The amount of meal or legume
fed in both the first and second trials was made to provide
protein at least adequate to the maintenance of the animals.
The rations fed in the second trials and the gains made are
summarised in Table 2.
The weights recorded are based on ten weighings on succes-
sive days about the initial and final days of the periods. The
weighings were made immediately after the morning meal of
prickly pear, and as they were obviously influenced by the
amount of pear taken they were corrected accorcUngly, being
brought to a basis of a sixty-pound prickly pear consumption.
This method of correction would appear to be necessary where
