GLACIAL MAN. SKERTCIILY. 137
he showed to be the cores from which the flakes for making
spear and arrow heads were struck. I have the original obsidian
core that led him to the solution (exhibited). John Evans —
the Sir John of later date — collected stone and bronze tools
assiduously, and had produced his great work on the Stone
Implements of Great Britain. It is a splendid catalogue, but
he was not much of a geologist. Sir John Lubbock, after-
wards Lord Avebury, did us the incomparable service of
inventing the terms " Neohthic " and '' Palseohthic " for the
two classes, pohshed stones, &c., as contrasted with the older,
ruder, unground weapons till then known as drift implements,
and he was the first not only to insist on the difference of their
ages, but to show that even the drift implements of the gravel
were not all of one age. Then Mr. Christy financed M. Lartet
and others to work out the caves of Dordogne, which yielded
among other treasures the now celebrated contemporary
portrait of the mammoth engraved on his own tusk.
This then was the state of affairs : — James Geilde and
I were up against three problems Avhose inertia was immense.
Of course others were in the fray, especially Searles-Wood
junior and F. W. Harmer in East AngUa, but I think we two
stood most of the blows. Naturally I got a double share, for
I had committed the enormity of slighting Bishop L'ssher's
chronology, and I assure you the Authorised Edition has the
ballistic power of a siege-gun, especially when propelled by
Calvanistic cordite. The battle raged on three fronts — the
theological, the interglacial, and the Adamic, if I may so put
my particular field of action. I should hke to give due credit
to others who ^vere in the fray — Mortillet, Rutimeyer, Tidde-
man, and many another veteran — but this is not a treatise, 'tis
but a bit of personal reminiscence.
As regards the relics of man, the gravels of France and
England had yielded bounteous spoil of implements ; a
memorable visit of EngHsh geologists to the Somme had
formally received the outcast haches de silex of M. Boucher de
Perthes within the pale of humanity ; here is one of the tools
brought back by A. Tylor from that memorable meeting.
Caves Avere A^ielding up their treasures, and the great fact of
man's contemporaneity \A-ith animals now extinct could never
more be doubted. Sir John Lubbock was among the first to
stress the fact that even in the gravels there was e\ndence of at
least two distinct periods, one pertaining to a colder, the other
to a warmer, climatic condition.
