138 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
But everyone thought these things were post-glacial, and
the orthodox ghost of good Bishop Ussher was not perturbed.
BRANDON.
I chose Brandon for my headquarters for anthropological
reasons ; it was the centre of an area brimmed to overflow in
stepping-stones of our dead selves, from tumuU where bronze
fibula lay cheek by jowl with flint arrow-head and polished
celt, to old mines wherein the early loiapper had quarried black
flint with deer-horn pick ; and the gravels of the river-banks
were deposit-bankb of palseolithic riches. Moreover it was the
only surviving seat of the gun-fhnt makers, who still send these
quaint survivals, weekly, by tens of thousands, to the Arctic
A^ilds of Siberia and Russia and the Hudson's Bay Territorj^
for the fur-hunters whose Avarmly gloved fingers could not
manipulate the tiny percussion cap. Canon Grenwell had
opened a few of the ancient fhnt-mines at Grime's Graves, and
in a fine jjaper had dropped the seed of a pregnant idea that
the modem gun-fhnt industry might be the lineal descendant
of the neolithic fhnt trade.
I received official permission to devote as much time as
was needed to work out the story of this djdng industry.
I became a flint-knapper and my sihceous education as a
workman was complete. I became partner in a gun-flint shop
and fhnt mine. The result was I was able to prove that the
gun-flint trade was the oldest in Europe, with continuity from
then backwards at least to neolithic times, for I learn that since
my time it has been thought the Grime's Graves pits are late
palseohthic. I showed that all the knapper's tools were but
iron and steel replicas of the stone and bone implements of
eld : that even some of the words of the lost language were in
daily use, and that the knapper himself belonged to the neolithic
type ; not only his tools but his body was age-old.
Meanwhile mapping went on, and I very soon became
convinced that the palseolithic implements I found in plenty
were not all of the same age, that some indeed were derived
from older deposits, as you may get Coralline Cragshells in
the Red Crag.
James Geikie had thrown out the bold suggestion that the
river-gravels with palaeolithic implements pertained to glacial
times : his argument being that their northern limit coincided
pretty closely with the southern limit of the later boulder-
