GLACIAL MAN. — SKERTCHLY. 139
clays, and Avere entirely missing from the area that had been
ice-worn in the later cold spells, though the caves (as in York-
shire), protected from the ice, yielded these tools not rarely.
This was my nest-egg, upon which I brooded, and from which
I hatched my own poor, pestered pullet. If, I argued, the
crude man of the crude weapon followed up retreating ice and
retreating reindeer he was the original cold-foot, but a plucky
fighting-man. He must have gloried in the brave north mnd
which hardened his thews and kept him fit — he was of a race
apart. The man who kept behind him on the warm plains and
plateaus where
They say the Lion and the Lizard keep
The Courts where Janashyd gloried and drank deep
must have been of other blood. Man in deed and in truth had
even thus early segregated into diverse types. And so I set
me to track him down.
For the glacial theory I then drove in my wedge showing
that the Boulder Clay which marked the crest of the ice-wave,
when ghttering ice-pinnacles o'ertopped the vales of Thames
and Severn, had not only gathered where it had not strawed,
but oft-times and in divers places had strawed not far from
where it had gathered — that the material filched from the
blue-black Kimeridge Clay was carried unsullied forward onto
the lighter blue Oxford Clay, and so on. No iceberg ever
calved at the back of the North Wind loiew enough geology
to return its collection of rocks to their parent bed. The Chalky
Boulder Clay got challder and chalkier as it spread over
cretaceous East AngHa, till some of it held foreign matter in
the scant percentage of the beastly powder of my childhood,
liydrargerum cum creta.
It became clear that in pre-glacial times the chalk plateau
around Brandon was, as might be expected, furrowed by
brook and river, and then buried beneath the burden of the
great ice rock-grinder. Then rain and frost and snow set to
work to clean the plateau up again, and now only patches of
glacial clay remain to witness of the days gone by. Some of
these patches lay in hollows in the Chalk, and to my supreme
delight beneath this Chalky Boulder Clay I found the shattered
fragments of beds of sand and gravel and clay, clearly of
fluviatile origin, obviously older than the glacial clay. They
were the long-desired evidence of interglacial strata older
than the climax of the Great Ice Age, and I named them the
Brandon Beds.
