1-40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
Very soon after my fondest hopes Avere realised, and my
Brandon Beds gave up their choicest secret — flint implements.
I waited till I had got them in more than one locaUty — and
they were as scarce as they were precious. I had of course
notified my chiefs — they were not overwhelmingly congratula-
tory, and I don't think ever really convinced, though they
were very nice to me, and allowed me to insert a meagre
Bowdlerised edition of mj- views, in my official Report on the
Gun-fhnt Industry.
Naturally the news created a sensation. Geologists were
asked to gulp at least three heresies in one bolus. First, the
Glacial Epoch was to be taken in three courses. Second, the
salt of the Chalky Boulder Clay had lost its savour and was
vapid freshwater stuff. Tliirdly, that man went a hunting
during fits of interglacial mildness between the cold chill
worldng hours of glaciation.
Prof. T. McK. Hughes had left the Geological Survey and
ascended the throne of SedgeA\-ick at Cambridge. It was his
delight, not once or twice in my poor Brandon storj% to come
down in full panoply of professorial dignity, with a tail of
glorious undergrads, howk me out and go over the ground
with me, and egg me on to expound, while he stood by mute.
Then would he strip his sleeves, and standing on the Brandon
Beds prove they were not there. He showed how my poor
Boulder Clay was nought but solid chalk, and in fine
demonstrated that I cUdn't understand geology but he did.
Among those who listened and profited by this A^dsdom was the
present Professor Marr, his successor (who has just exhumed
me from obli\don), as he reminds me in a letter just to hand.,
I vaUantly bearded the Cambridge lions in their den, and at
the Philosophical Society meekly suggested that the genesis of
man and man in Genesis were not convertible terms. After
being soothed by the strains of a paper on Smith's function in a
rectangular parallelepipedon I was called on. It was Hughes's
hour of triumph, and he was glad he had been bom. In presence
of megaspores of dons, he got me down and roUed on me, he
took me in his teeth and mangled me, and then fhnging my
remains onto a cane-bottomed chair, sat down panting but
proud. One man alone had arnica for me — the Rev. Osmond
Fisher, our greatest mathematical geologist, who had been
over the evidence with me, and whose guest I was. A truly
