GLACIAL MAN. SKERTCHLY. 141
great man, he went Avest but a few years since, having spent
nearly a century benefiting the earth -ttith his profound
originaUt}'. He took casts of my implements, and I suppose
they still exist. Dear old friend, the storm that raged never
shook your faith in my work— for you loiew. To him I owe
my introduction to T. Belt. We all three went over the ground
together and Belt was satisfied. Alas ! he died shortly after,
I beheve in Nova Scotia.
The Sheffield meeting of the British Association was at
hand, and my friend E. B. Tylor (not then knighted) was presi-
dent of the Anthropological Section, then.new, much neglected,
and a Httle feared. By this time I had begun to wish my silvern
speech had been coined into golden silence, and I intended
to adopt the tactics of Brer Rabbit, but Tylor wouldn't have
it. " You see, Skertchly," he placidly remarked, " neither
I nor anybody else cares one spangled sequin about your
views, but you will be an attraction and there's sure to be a
row, and the Anthropological Section mIU get into the lime-
light." So I was offered up, and there ivas a row. Evans,
Huxlej'^, Newton (not the gravitation maker but the bird man),
and all the other magnates whose words decided Avhether a
thing was true and respectable, true and naughty, or neither,
clubbed me as if each had inherited Thor's hammer. But
I was never A\ithout one champion, and Sir John Lubbock
stood up for me like — well, like Lord Avebury. Afterwards
pubhc opinion was too much for hint, and he more than half
recanted in Prehistoric Times.
Next came the meeting of the "Americanists" at Brussels.
Evans, Lubbock, and I were selected to represent England.
Lubbock was called to the South of France suddenly and
couldn't come ; Evans didn't come, I don't know why ; and
I stood there alone to represent Britannia, armed with a stone
axe instead of a trident. I read a paper correlating the
American and European old stone tools, and did it in my own
hardened Avay. All the fine naturafists of Europe and some
of the Americans were there. Again I had a soUtary champion
in that splendid fighter the Abbe Renard, then holding a
chair at Louvain.
A very serious accident caused me to leave the Geological
Survey, and for months I was forbidden to read. For some
time my wife and I wandered over France and Itah% and
