142 PROCEEDIXGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
I laid in new supplies of Tertiary and Post-Tertiary lore.
Returning to England I found Lord Gosehen had inaugurated
the Universit}^ Extension scheme, and I became one of the
first lecturers. The London Listitution asked me to lecture
on Man, and I gave the first course of lectures ever delivered
in London upon that subject at the famous institution in
Finsbury Square. I also gave courses on Anthropology for
the University Extension, naturally setting forth mj^ views.
Then came the death of my beloved Alfred Tylor, and there
Avas now nothing to keep me in England. I went to America
and after many days read the story of pre-glacial man in
CaUfomia, as you may see in the Journal of the Anthropological
Society for 1888, and a stone mortar from those old gravels
of Butte County that I brought home is in the British Museum.
The j)aper (read in my absence abroad) attracted but Httle
attention, though S. Laing commented on it favourably in one
of liis thoughtful and delightful books. Even my friend
Alfred Russel Wallace seemed obhvious of it, for he wrote to
me that the remarks in liis Darwinism were from his own
observation — years after my visit. My American find shared
the fate of its Enghsh co-sinner.
The evidence I rehed upon in America was entirely geological
— a fact I must dwell upon more particularly further on. The
artifacts were chiefly stone mortars, and they had been
known since about 1849. The American geological mind was
revolving in a sort of " Cahfomian wheel" which went round
and round to this sort of reasoning : The mortars are of
human origin, therefore the gravels are Post-Tertiary ; the-
flora in the gravels is Phocene, therefore the gravels are
Tertiary : clearly the gravels cannot be both ; clearly we
cannot ignore the 300 artifacts that had turned up by 1888,
and as the genesis of man is proved in Genesis, it is preferable
to abohsh the Phocene plants and the 100 feet of overlying
basalt and let Bishop Ussher be true and fossils and mortars
{having no souls to be lost) be post-tertiaried into respectability.
Faith was removing mountains.
An opportunity of visiting Borneo ha\dng arisen I eagerlj^
embraced it. From the time when in the lecture theatre of the
School of Mines (then in our Geological Survey building in
Jermyn street, London) I had followed ^^ith keen delight
Huxley's masterly description of the Neanderthal and other
