GLACIAL MAN. SKERTCHLY. 143
old skulls, I had been disposed (unorthodoxly) to think man
was of more than one race even when we first come upon his
rehcs ; and I had grown more and more to place weight upon
the view many held, that as West Africa was the home ahke of
the black negro and the black gorilla, just as the Islands of the
Sun were the abode of the brown orang-utan and the brown
Malay, those parts might be " centres of origin." So I fondly
hoped it might fall to me to unearth glacial man in Asia as I
had done in Europe and America. But neither gravel nor
cave in Borneo or other island in the Archipelago had any
message for me. Far up the Kinabatangan River I found this
(exhibited) the only old stone implement that rewarded me.
It is old, almost certainly prehistoric so far as the Dysik race
is concerned, but whether it be coeval with our neoHthic or
palseohthic, or still newer, there was not a particle of geological
evidence to prove. It was reserved, as you know, for M.
Dubois to exhume the much-debated Pithecanthropus — the
man-monkey, or the monkey-man. The fight on this point
has raged fiercely, and the fray has not j^et come even to an
armistice ; but this I loiow, that if M. Dubois be lucky enough
to catch a five one he vnU be puzzled whether to take it to
the Zoo or the Sunday-school.
From Borneo I went to China, . always in quest of the
glacial sangTeal, and travelled mony a weary fit over gravel
and loess, in the vain pilgrimage. The China- Japan war sent
me to Austraha, for Othello's occupation was gone from the
land of Confucius, and unless my old pupil Sun-yat-sen, elected
President of China, should lure me from this newest to that
quasi-oldest civilisation, here I shall come to rest. What I have
done in Queensland to elucidate our ill-used cousin Black-
fellow's history I have already hinted at.
THE NATURE OF THE EVIDENCE.
Let me now expound in some detail the nature of the
evidence ; and permit me once again to emphasize that the
pre-glacial, inter-glacial, glacial, or post-glacial antiquity of
man depends upon geological evidence, and upon nothing else.
The characters of the bones and implements, the associated
fauna and flora, have notliing whatever to do A\ith the question.
If the beds be, say, inter-glacial so must be the associated animal
and vegetable remains ; they sink or s\^im together. Yet this
axiom was, by most, overlooked.
