144 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
Put plainly the case was this : — I asserted three things :
first that the Brandon Beds lay beneath the Chalky Boulder
Clay, and were consequently anterior to the culmination of
the Glacial Period ; secondly that the said Chalky Boulder
Clay was the product of land ice and not of floating icebergs ;
thirdly that the Brandon Beds contained remains of man in
the fhnt implements I obtained in several, and the broken
bones and old hearth I found in one place. I may here add
that I found what I believed to be the site of an old tool
factory of this age, and Professor Marr writes me that a party
of (now penitent) geologists have recently spent some days in
detailed examination of the locality, and their results confirm
my vicM's. It did not take ten minutes to refute them forty
years ago ! " '
Lrf^oldng back to those early days I now feel sure that I
was at that time the only man alive who could have deciphered
the evidence. I am too old (and too far away) to be suspected
of immodesty in so sajdng, but if you recall my very peculiar
and special training you will see why I make the statement,
and also the reason why I have burdened this paper with so
many reminiscences. It is not I but the ferment I set up that
}natters : I was only the imrecognised enzyme.
It might seem a jDcrfectly easy elementary problem to
prove that one bed lay atop of another when they were before
your eyes. But it wasn't. Whitaker and Hughes and Harmer
(to cite a few) were competent field geologsts and skilful
mappers of beds, of wide experience, yet they failed to read
the sections aright ; and if they were nonplussed M^hat was the
fate of those whose scientific profundity would not enable
them to distinguish between a cryptogam and a cryptogram ?
Take the above three friends of mine. How came it that
they failed to recognise my Boulder Clay in many cases —
they who had mapped so much of it ? It was largely owing
to the reflex of the misleading theory of the marine origin of
the boulder-clay. • Clearly icebergs must in their melting
moments shed their dr}^ tears indiscriminatelj' ; the seeds of
future marine boulder-clays (to change the metaphor) must
fall, some upon good soil, some upon stony ground, and some
by the wayside ; there could be no connection between the
stones in the clay and the rocks upon which they fell, if the
berg were travelling high up above the outcrops of different
Idnds of rock. " Chalk to chalk " was not written in the
iceberg's burial service.
