LARVAL AND PUPAL STAGES, MYZORHYNCHUS BANCROPTI. 167
larvse of N^yssorhi/nckus annuUpes Walker were found in
moderate numbers floating at the surface film and intercepted
from the main body of water by a more or less unbroken layer
of green Algae.
After having scooped up many larvse of other species, a
specimen was noticed which bore, on examination with a
hand-lens, certain characteristics Avhich were at the time
regarded as being pecuhar to some hitherto unrecognised
mosquito larva. It was carefully isolated from the others and
its metamorphoses subsequently watched over with interest,
for one would have naturally suspected the species under
consideration ; nor was this anticipation ill-grounded, insomuch
that at the final ecdysis the desired imago appeared. Two
hours were spent that day, during which time further supplies
of the elusive species were sought for, but the collector frankly
admits that he played the role of the unsuccessful sportsman
and returned home with a spoil of three larvae (last larval instar)
and one pupa which ultimately gave rise to two females and
one male of Myzorhynchus bancrofti. Since that time, no less
than eight hours (extending into three days) have been devoted
to the same spot, but the results were wholly disappointing,
not one further specimen having been caught.
Metamorphoses.
On reaching home the same day (12th May) the specimens
were transferred to a mosquito breeding cage.^ Two days
later the pupal ecdysis took place, resulting in a female
specimen. On the third day one of the three larvae had pupated
and two da3^s later the pupa gave rise to a female. One of the
two remaining larvae was killed for future use ; the other
eventually pupated, the jDupal instar covering two days, and
merged as a male specimen. The first of the two females
which emerged died during the second day of aerial life without
having sucked blood. The remaining female lived with a male
four days, when the male died and was most unfortunately
destroyed by ants before any microscopic observations could
be made.
^ The breeding cage takes the form of a parallelopiped of mosqmto
netting stretched over a wooden frame, about 8 by 8 by 14 inches. Small
vessels of water containing larva? are introduced into this mosquito cage
by means of a sleeve in the side.
