168 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
Habits of the Adult Female. — The surviving female, four
days after the adult stage had been reached, commenced to
bite when the bare arm was placed in the cage. -After a short
and decided selection of the site of puncture (back of the
hand) about two minutes were occupied by haustellation ;
the female sucked so vigorously that haemolysed blood (about
0-01 minim) was voided at the anus. This was examined as a
blood-smea-r made on a slide under an oil-immersion lens ; it
revealed the presence of numerous leucocytes and plasmolysed
erythrocytes. The bite produced A, small white induration of
the skin surrounded by a diffused erythematous patch, and a
painful itching for some minutes followed. A period of four
days elapsed before a second haustellation took place, and
after a further interval of six days a tliird meal of blood was
taken. Despite the fact that banana ^and jam were freely
offered to the female, as well as a judicious supply of blood,
the mosquito died on the sixth day after the third meal, having
completed an aerial longevity of 21 days without ovipositing.
Macroscopic Appearance of Male. — Perhaps the most out-
standing feature of the male is its relatively smaller size. With
reference to the resting posture, it might be said that the body
axis, when the insect is on a wall, forms an angle with the
wall of 80 degrees ; when on a horizontal plane the angle
meaures about 65 degrees.
Larva.
Macroscopic Appearance and Behaviour. — A large, very
dark larva, with very large and pronounced palmate hairs,
the latter just discernible to unaided vision under the best
illumination (incident obUquely). The chsetotaxy is also
rather distinctive. In the living condition, the larva skirts
along the surface film of the water by bold lateral strokes of
its whole body.
Characters as seen by an Aplanatic Hand-lens (X 20). —
When the larva is held in a column of water by means of a
pneumatic dropper and examined either by direct transmitted
or reflected light, an excellent view of the palmate hairs is to
be had. The chaetotaxy may be studied en masse, but the
individual structure of " hairs " can only be appreciated after
having made microscopic observations of them.
Microscopic Structure. — The foUowng descriptions are
based on morphological observations made on two larval
