LARVAL AND PUPAL STAGES, MYZORHYNCHUS BANCROPTI. 169
exuvise and an entire specimen, all dehydrated through the
graduated alcohols and prepared as permanent microscopic
mounts in Canada balsam. It might be added that very little
variation was noticed in these three specimens and the
characteristics to be noted present a striking constancy.
Length of larva exclusive of caudal chsetse, 7 mm.
Head and anal segment dark and heavily pigmented.
Head. — Head markedly narrower than thorax, mahogany
coloured. Eyes roughly triangular in shape, existing merely
as aggregations of undifferentiated pigment cells. Antennae
slightly curved, covered with many sharply pointed but simple
spines the size of which latter decreases from base to apex.
Proximal portion of antennae slightly incrassated. A branched
seta arises from a submedian point on the antenna, the branches
being about 12 in number, of equal length and giving the
appearance of a radial grouping. Each antenna is tipped with
two stout spinelike processes, weakly chitinised, also with an
extremely dehcate branched seta of about five branches.
Mouth- brushes consisting of moderately chitinised simple
" hairs." Labrum clothed with minute slightly recurved and
distally serrated setae. Mandibles consisting of small but
heavily chitinised " teeth." Labial plate roughly triangular,
the base obtusely and symmetrically crenated ; there are
about three lateral, more or less irregular blunt teeth and a
median (apical) one of average size. An asymmetrically shaped
hole occurs on either side of the median line of the labial plate.
The. frontal " hairs " of the head exist as six well-defined
branched setae.
Thorax showing the usual divisions, rendered manifest
by the pro-, meso-, and meta-thoracic branched setae, the
metathoracic tufts being the most defined and outstanding.
In addition to this usual chaetotaxic grouping, there is a group
of three long simple hairs which arises from a moderately
chitinised tubercle on the antero -lateral margins of the
thorax ; at the base of each of these hair-tufts are two unequal
spines, one markedly chitinised, the other (longer one) weakly
so. On the inner side of these hair-tufts are two minute,
branched setae, one on each side of the median line. There is
a small but pronounced feathered hair on each side of the
mesothorax and a smaller and less- pronounced one on the
antero-lateral aspect of the prothorax. Several very minute
palmate hairs are to be found on the thorax.
N
