170 PROCEEDINGS 01*^ THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
Abdomen. — The abdominal segments 1 to 3 have branched
lateral setae rather mucli like those of the thorax ; segments
4 to 6 with long bifid setse. All the abdominal setaj arise from
distinct chitinous tubercles, and in addition to the ordinary
lateral setse there are much smaller branched ones arising near
their bases. The typical palmate hair takes the form of rather
large and mottled sharply tapering " leaves," the edges of which
can be observed to be minutely serrated only by close focussing
of the fine adjustment v/hen the iris diaphragm is reduced to a
minute aperture ; from 15 to 19 such " leaves" go to make
up one of the large palmate " hairs." There are large palmate
" hairs " on segments 3 to 7, minute ones (less notched) on
segment 2, and still more minute ones on the thorax (2 pairs).
The thoracic and abdominal palmate hairs show a gradual
transition both in size and complexity, which is a good object
lesson in the development of the typical " palm " from a
simple " hair- tuft."
The spines of the comb on the eighth abdominal segment
take the form of simple undifferentiated (except for size)
spikes, large roughly alternating with smaller ones. The
number is about 14 on either side.
The anal segment is of a mahogany colour, and its surface
is invested with numerous minute sharp, simj)le spines, of about
the same shape and size as those existing on the shafts of the
antennae. Ventral beard arranged in about 10 paired groups
of typically branched hairs. Dorsal beard well represented.
Swimming fans equal, moderately elongated and obtusely
pointed.
Pupa.
Macroscopic Ajpjyearance and Behaviour. — The pupa of
M. bancrojti presents nothing extraordinary except for its
apparent uniform dark colour and large size. Its movements
are rather sluggish.
Lens Characters. — A most striking feature of the puj)a is
the linear extensions of mottled or variegated colour- markings
of the cephalothorax. What were, on the field, taken to be
variegated scale -markings of a well-developed contained imago
apparently showing through the diaphanous puparium, were,
afterwards, by examining the exuvial puparium, undoubtedly
due to chitinous incrassations of the pupal skin. When we
reflect that it is more difficult to identify Culicid pupae than
