172 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ROYAL SOCIETY OP QUEENSLAND.
larvae — in the writer's opinion, such as it is, an anomalous
feature of descriptive biology, and if a crude analogy can be
drawn, the converse of von Baer's great law of embryonic
generalisation — then the pupa of M. bancrofti presents a
notable distinction amongst the Culicidse. The caudal fins
are rather striking by reason of their relative diminutiveness.
The fans are also closely approximated and do not show any
tendency to lateral spreading.
Microscopic Structure. — The mottled stripes of the cephalo-
thorax roughly correspond to the lines marked out by the wing
venation and the forked cell markings are clearly seen. The
breathing trumpets are small, broad and triangular. There
is a pair of large tree-Hke plumes of much-branched setse at
the base of the cephalothorax.
On each of the sides of the abdominal segments 2 to 6 is a
short stout bluntly pointed and strongly chitinised spur.
Each segment has a pair of branched setse, each of which
branches from a short stalk into 5 more or less equal and
regularly disposed " hairs." There are also minute bifid and
trifid " hairs " on each segment. The seventh segment bears a
pair of small plumes of peculiarly branched hairs on the posterior
angles.
The "leaves" of the caudal fin are hyaline, each stiffened
in the ordinary way by a midrib, which latter shows a double
contour, is very faintly striated transversely, and weakly
chitinised, but ending in a short, highly chitinised spur or
" bristle."
Note on the Taxonomic Position of Myzorhynchus
bancrofti.
Taylor (1911),'^ after having examined specimens of M.
bancrofti in conjunction with those of 31. barbirostris v. d. W.
from Ptiilippine Islands, came to the conclusion that the former
should be classed as a variety of the latter ; he evidently
assumed that the older-described species should necessarily be
the one of longer standing (in nature), but, even if there be
grounds for the justification of this sort of reasoning, the present
writer is of opinion that one should be careful in drawing con-
clusions on hasty premises, the more so when it is said that
* Taylor, F. H. : Report of the Australian Institute of Tropical
Medicine, 1911.
