The Freshwater Fish Epidemics in Queens-
land Rivers.
By Professor T. Harvey Johnston, M.A., D.Sc, F.L.S.,
and
M. J. Bancroft, B.Sc, formerly Walter and Eliza Hall
Fellow in Economic Biology, University, Brisbane.
{Read before the Royal Society of Queensland, 28th Nov., 1921.)
At irregular intervals very widespread and deadly ej)!-
demics have appeared amongst freshwater fish in Queensland
rivers, more esj)ecially those in the western portions of the
State. We have endeavoured to ascertain the cause of the
mortality but have not as yet succeeded. The outbreaks occur
usually in localities that are not readily accessible and moreover
generally last for a short time. These facts, together with tardy
arrival of information as to the presence of the malady in any
particular district, have prevented either of us from being
present during an actual outbreak, though on one occasion
a visit was paid to a locality just as an epidemic had subsided.
Since one of us has now left the State and the other has
undertaken additional duties, it seems unlikely that either will
be able, for some time at least, to give further attention to the
matter now under consideration. We have therefore thought
it advisable to bring together the information which Ave have
collected, so that it may form a basis for some future worker.
We take this opportunity to express our indebtedness
to the following for their kind assistance : — Mr. W. Hamilton,
Chief Inspector of Fisheries, Brisbane ; Mr. R. Caldwell (Charle-
ville) ; Messrs. M. J. Bergin (Goondiwindi), W. H. Ryan
(Charleville), J. McKinley (Goondiwindi), and J. Hogan (Ingle-
wood) of the Pohce Department ; Messrs H. A. Longman
and J. D. Ogilb}^ Queensland Museum ; Messrs. F. Mills, T.
Woulfe, and members of the Longreach Shire Council ; R.
Vamey (Brisbane) ; A. V. Stretton (Rankine River) ; J. F.
Colbert (Lake Nash) ; W. H. Rudd (Austral Downs) ; the
last-mentioned three localities being situated in the Northern
