FRESHWATER FISH EPIDEMICS IN QUEENSLAND RIVERS. 1(7
take a fit and swam towards the shallow water or bank of the
river, where they died. Their eyes bulged out and they appeared
to be sightless. Inside the mouth was of a bluish colour. Their
gills and scales appeared to be normal. The fish upon being
opened up were found to be very fat. Neither the jewfish
nor the freshwater tortoises, which Avere plentiful in the river,
were affected. The epidemic, which commenced shortly after
the heavy rains, was still present at the time of writing, i.e.,
for a period of from three to four weeks. On 22nd March this
outbreak wass reported in the " Brisbane Courier."
On 23rd April Mr. Mills again wrote reporting that the
mortality was not so pronounced and that difficulty had been
experienced in obtaining for us a fish in the moribund state.
Eventually a specimen, identified by Mr. J. D. Ogilb}'' as
Therapon carbo Ogilby & McCulloch, was sent down.
In the middle of May a rise in the river was occasioned by
rains up country, sweeping away all signs of the outbreak, which
had apparently asted for almost two months, being at iis
height at the end of March.
On 7tli August Mr. Mills informed us that the mortality
had reappeared at the end of July, fish d\'ing in large numbers.
The senior author v.as av.'ay from town at the time and the
junior author vsas not able to arrive at Longreach until 17th
August. On the following day, aithougli prolonged search Avas
made up and down the large lagoon adjacent to the town, only
two moribund fish were obtained, one being a Therapon hillii
Castln., the other a bony bream, Nematalosa elongafa Macleay.
Dead and rotting fish were exceedingly abundant, especiaU}^
at the lower end of the lagoon, where they were piled up
against the crossing. Although close search was made, no more
dying fish were obtained. On several days hauls were made
AAith a small-meshed net in the hop? of obtaining diseased
specimens. An astonishingly large number of fish Avere caught
in each haul but none appeared diseased, so the majority Avere
returned to the AA-ater, a fcAv being kept for examination.
Three species, Plectrop)liies ambiguus Richardson (golden
perch or j-elloAv-belly), Therapon hillii (" black bream "' or
grunter), and Nematalosa elongata (slender bony bream) Avere
by far the most abundant. Xo catfish Avere caught in these
hauls.
During the Aveek pre\nous to the 18th, men had been
mployed raking the fish out of the riA^er and burning them.
