178 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROVAE SOCIETY OF QCEENSLAND.
Heaps of fish could be seen along the bank for about two
miles. A large proportion of those seen in the unburnt heaps
were small jewfish (resembling A^eosilurus), but specimens of
black bream, golden perch, and bony bream could also be
recognised. The mortality apparently had affected old and
young fish alike, as large and small specimens of perch and
bream were found.
Flocks of water-birds had also assisted in clearing the
river of dying fish. Cormorants {Phalacrocorax snlcirostris
and P. nielanoleucus), snake-birds {Plotus novcehollandice), white
egrets {Herodias timoriensis) , blue cranes {Notophoyx novce-
hollandice), nankeen herons — so-called bitterns {Nycticorax
caledonicus) — and kites (Milvus affinis) were all present in
large numbers. Black ibis {Plegadis falcinellus) and white ibis
{Ibis molucca) were also numerous, but pelicans {Pelecanus
conspicillatus), though present, were not common. In the
upper reaches of the lagoon wild pigs had been seen feeding on
the dead fish.
Mr. W. Woulfe wrote from Longreach (26th December
1918) stating that the epidemic had reappeared in the Thomson
River, affecting chiefly fish of from four to six pounds in
weight. He counted 111 dead fish that morning along a length
of only fifty yards of the bank. Cormorants were present in
countless thousands, while pelicans, herons, blue cranes, &c.,
were in great numbers.
In the '■ Courier " of 7th January, 1919, it was stated
that during the preceding three weeks great mortality of fish
had occurred in the Tliomson River, deaths being more
numerous than on the previous occasion, large fish especiall}''
being the victims.
As an outbreak was reported in the Brisbane daily press
(27th August 1919) as having occurred in the Bulloo and
Wilson Rivers, we wrote to Mr. Mills who informed us that the
epidemic had broken out at Longreach during the winter
and had lasted about six weeks, terminating in early August.
McINTYRE AND SEVERN RIVERS.
Through the kindness of Mr. W. Hamilton, Fisheries
Department, Brisbane, we had access to reports from the
police officers at Goondiwindi (Messrs. M. J. Bergin, J. McKinley)
and Inglewood (Mr. J. Hogan) relating to an epidemic during
the late Avinter of 1918 in these two rivers.
