FRESHWATER FISH EPIDEMICS IX QTEENSLAND RIVERS. 179
Mr. Hogan reported (10th August 1918) that large numbers
of fish, principally jewfish and golden perch, had died recently
in the Mclntyre and Severn (Dumaresq) Rivers, the outbreak
being locally regarded as due to one or other of the follov^ing : —
(1) intense cold and continual heavy frosts destroying fish,
especially in shallow Avater ; (2) the prevalence of a disease ;
(3) the low state of the river. Death of the fish was not due
to the use of dynamite though this had been put forward as a
possible explanation.
Mr. Bergin reported (7tli August) that dead fish were
coming down the river past Bengalla Station. On 28th August
he kindly forwarded to us additional information. The
Mclntyre River had been rather dry and stagnant, as little rain
had fallen from Christmas 1917 until August 1918, when
rain caused a fresh in the river and the epidemic ceased.
Murray cod, yellow-belh^ and jewfish were especially affected,
and diseased specimens were all found to be fat. During his
ten years' residence in the district he had only once previously
noted a similar epidemic, viz., during the great drought of 1915.
He also stated that he remembered fish dying in the Condamine
River some years ago, but believed that it was due in that
particular case to the pollution of the water by an adjacent
wool-scour. -
Mr. J. McKinle)^ referred (2nd September 1918) to the
mortahty in the Mclntyre in the Goondiwindi district affecting
chiefly the Murray cod and golden perch, mainly small speci-
mens. Such fish when opened were found to be very fat,
though otherwise they looked normal. Since the recent heavy
rains the disease had disappeared.
BURNETT RIVER.
In July 1918 fish died in the lagoon at the junction of the
Nogoa and Burnett Rivers. When visited by Dr. T. L. Ban-
croft some weeks later only a few dead fish were to be seen
and these were all in the shalloAv water.
" H. B. Ward has drawn attention to the effec-t of industrial
wastes on fish life in his paper on " The Elimination of Stream Pollution
in New York State" (Trans. Amer. Fisheries Soc. 48, 1918, pp. 1-25).
See also Sheliord 1917, 1918a, 1918b, 1919a: Shelford and Powers 1919;
Hofer 190G, pp. 83-86.
