ISO I'KOCREDINGS OF THE ROVAL SOCIf:TY OF QUEENSLAND.
BULLOO RIVER.
On 4th September 1918 a paragraj:)!! appeared in the
Brisbane '" Daily Mail " announcing that a mysterious disease
A\as attacking fish in the Bulloo River from Adavale to the
vicinity of Toompine, where they Avere d3ang in countless
numbers, rendering the water unfit for human consumjition.
A local theory attributed the disease to the extraordinary
season and to overbreeding.
The Commissioner of Police was approached on this
matter, and communicated A\ith one of his officials in the
Bulloo district to find out whether the epidemic had ceased.
Subsequently the text of Sub-inspector W. H. Ryan's reply
and, later, a copy of his report (dated 12th Sep ember, 1918)
on the matter were forwarded. This officer stated that some
weeks previously the fish had been djang in great numbers
in the Bulloo, but since then rain had fallen in places and as a
result of the fresh in the river the mortahty had ceased. All
species of fish in the stagnant waterholes were affected but
golden perch appeared most susceptible, being the first to die.
It was considered locally tha": the mortality Avas caused bj^
lack o' oxygen in the stagnant water. It Avas noticed at
Quilpii .hat fish Avere not killed in Hoodrum Lake, though
this contained Bulloo RiA^er AAater and AAas onl}^ a short distanc -
from the smaller stagnant riA^er-Avaterholes Avhere fish Avere
dving in hundreds.
In the " Daily Mail " of 27th August 1919, mention Avas
made that the epidemic had reappeared in th ■ Bulloo and
in the Wilson RiA^er, fish of three pounds and upAAards dying in
extraordinary numbers, smaller specimens apparently escaping
the disease.
GEORGINA AND DI A:\L4NTIN A RIVERS.
In the Brisbane " Daily Mail " of 14th September 1918,
the obserA^ations of Mr. E. R. CaldAvell on the condition of fish
in the Georgina RiA^er were giA^en. EA^dences of an epidemic
Avere first seen by him in the Georgina near Lake Nash (Northern
Territor}'), but on folloAving the riA'cr soutliAvard dead fish could
be seen piled up along the banks. Mr. Ogilby had suggested
this might be due to the salmon disease Avhich affected fish
AA'hen the A\'ater Avas 1oaa\ There Avere many large pools in the
Gi^orgina, hoAACA-er, and no sign of contaminating influence, the
only places in AA-hich fish Avere not dying being the " kopai "
