FRESHWATER FISH EPIDEMiCS IN QUEENSLAND RIVERS. 181
(mineralised) holes. All kinds of fish were affected and in each
case the disease shoAved the same symptoms — " a blue spot
on the side, upon the bursting of which the fish died." ]VIr.
Ogilbj' subsequenth' suj^plied information to the Press that
Saprohgnia would not live in water which contained any
degree of salinity, as was the case with the " kopai " holes.
Mr. Caldwell informed us that the epidemic had appeared
in November 1917 and June and July 1918, in the upper
reaches of the Georgina, in the vicinity of Lake Xash. Tons
of dead fish were to be seen and plenty of sick fish v.ere being
caught near the surface and along the edge of the lake by
aboriginals. The species represented were yeUow-beUies,
catfish (jewfish), bony bream, and another kind. The stretch
of water in A^hich the mortality occurred was five or six miles
long and in places between 20 and 30 feet in depth. Commonl}'
associated A\"ith the disease was the presence on attacked fish
of a bluish swelling about the size of a sixpence or shilling,
at the side in the abdominal region, the aboriginals stating
that when these " boils " burst the fish turn over and die.
In " kopai " holes the water was clear and brackish oA^ing to
abundance of calcium sulphate (" kopai ") and the fish were
normal. A\'hereas in the adjacent waterholes containing clayey
or muddy v.ater, even though somewhat brackish, the fish
Avere d^ang. This happened between May and September
1918 wliile Mr. Caldwell was on the Georgina. There was no
drought at the time and cattle were fat.
Mr. Caldwell also stated that in large waterholes in the
Austral Downs district (Northern Territory) near Camooweal,
though fish Avere plentiful, no dead ones were seen b}^ him during
his vi.sit in May 1918.
In subsequent communications (October and November
1919) he informed us that attacked fish came to the surface and
were very sluggish in their movements. An old aboriginal had
informed him that fish had died periodically in the Georgina
River as long as he could remember. Mr. Caldwell stated
that one vieAv as to the cause was that it was due t^ over-
stocldng and consequent shortage of food ; another, that it was
due to cold weather, or to the prevalence of "umbrella grass"
which blocked up the gills of the fish. Cormorants were
especialh" abundant, and these, together with the large
numbers of pehcans present, were in his opinion sufficient to
prevent any overstocking.
