182 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROVAL SOCIETY OP QUEENSLAND.
Mr. J. F. Colbert, of Lake Nash Station, Northern Territory,
in reply to a series ol questions, gave the following information
(September-November 1919). He had met with the epidemic
on the Diamantina. Bourke, and Georgina Rivers, especially
during June and July. In these rivers and particularly at
Lake Nash and at Boulia (Bourke River), the dead fish were
at times jailed up on the banks by the wind, forming a mass
some feet across, and this in spite of the presence of enormous
numbers of water-birds which were engaged in devouring
them. The chief kinds affected were yellow-belly, bream, and
perch. The bluish '' boil " mentioned by Mr. Caldwell was
not observed. Diseased specimens Avere fat. He was unaware
whether there was any relation between the occurrence of the
epidemic and drought or cold. The water was not obviously
mineralised, and bore-Mater Avas not present at Lake Nash.
The disease, which appeared and disappeared suddenly, was
found both in shallow and in deep holes containing water which
was of a dark-green colour — " as green as a typical duck-
pond" — whereas during the time that the epidemic was not
present it was muddy or milky. In places, e.g. Old Cork Station
(Diamantina), the stench from the decomposing fish was so
bad that people had to leave the homestead and camp else-
where. The epidemic did not make its appearance at Lake
Nash during 1919. Mr. Colbert questioned large numbers of
aboriginals, Mho beheved that the death of the fish was brought
about by one of two cause: — (a) the water turned green and
killed them ; (b) the fish fought and killed each other. The
latter is obviously an insufficient explanation.
Mr. W. H. Rudd, Austral Downs, Northern Territory,
stated (January 1920), in reply to our questions, that he had
observed the condition in the Georgina and Diamantina Rivers
during September, October, and November 1917, and in the
former river during the latter half of 1918. It was not seen
during 1919. Yellow-bellies and a kind of catfish were espe-
cially affected, becoming drowsy, shimming slowly near the
banks in shallow water, and then floating and dying on the
surface. Though the fish were fat and appeared to be some-
what swollen, no discolouration was noticed. The epidemic
appeared each time rather suddenly about midwinter, finally
disappearing Avhen the rivers began to flow as a result of heavy
rainfall. Though it occurred during the dry time of the year,
there was no drought, but there were verj^ cold periods with
ice on the water occasionally. Good rains had fallen each
