FRESHWATER FISPI EPIDEMICS IN QUEENSI-AXD RIVERS. 183
3^ear prior to the outbreak. Fish died chiefly in die large
waterholes. The water was des<?ribed as good ; though not
clear it was not muddy, and as far as Mr. Rudd knew it con-
tained very little mineral matter. No bore-water entered he
holes where the epidemic occurred, and weeds were not obvious.
He mentioned that some local people thought that overstocking
was the cause, but stated that bird life was as plentiful as
during the period when ihe epidemic was not prevalent. The
aboriginals informed him that they had never known fish to
die in such quantities before and believed that the cold weather
was the cause. In places blacks were employed to drag the dead
fish out of the waterholes with wire-netting, the water having
become too polluted to be used for drinking. Sick fish were
eaten by thf' blacks without apparent ill effect.
Mr. A. V. Stretton, who is in charge of the police station at
Rankine River, wrote on 31st July 1920 regarding the outbreaks
at Anthony's Lagoon (Northern Territory) where he was
previously stationed. From his replies to questions submitted
to him, the following information has been taken. The fish
affected were chiefly perch {PlectropUtes), only a few catfish
being among them. They could be readily caught by hand
when near the water's edge. All were very fat. A noticeable
feature in regard to affected catfish Avas the presence of a led
streak along the abdomen. Though the fish were slightly
swollen, the bluish colour referred to by some of the previously
reported observers was not noticed. He stated that the}^ began
to die at the lagoon on 10th August 1917, destruction pro-
ceeding for eleven days, the fish dying in " countless thousands."
On 20th March 1918 the epidemic reaj)peared in spite of the
fact that the river was running, and continued until 12th
April, a period of about 23 days. There was another out-
break on 16th July 1918, lasting nine daj^s. There had not been
any further occurrence up to the time that Mr. Stretton had left
the locality.
The epidemic appeared and disajipeared suddenly, and in
his opinion had no relation to drought. Though no rain fell
during the periods when the mortality was in evidence, yet
there had been abundant rainfall in 1917 and 1918 — viz., 32 and
30 inches respectively, whereas the annual average was only
18 inches. There was no relation to abnormally cold weather,
as the temperatures during the winter were not noticeably
lower than during other years. The water was not charged
