188 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROVAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
6. Disease caused by parasites which may be —
(a) Helminths,
(h) Protozoa —
(i.) Myxosporidia,
(ii.) Flagellata, Infusoria,
(c) Fungi,
{d) Bacteria.
7. Two or more of the foregoing acting at the same 'ime.
(1) DYNAMITE THEORY.
It has been suggested that the use of dynamite as an
illegal means for obtaining fish might be an explana.tion of the
widespread mortaUty.
The reports from the Severn and Mclntyre Rivers are
opposed to such an opinion. We think that the presence of
dead fish floating down the Brisbane River in 1918 was, at
least in part if not entirely, due to this cause. Specimens from
the locality submitted to us by Mr. H. A. Longman, Director of
the Queensland Museum, were found to have the s^\am-bladder
burst and the viscera disorganised, an effect such as one might
expect from the use of some high explosive.
Mr. Ogilby of the Queensland Museum, in a letter to the
Brisbane " Sundaj^ Times " of 18th September 1918, referred
to the matter and stated definitely that boating parties in the
vicinity of Ipswich were in the habit of using dynamite, and
since they probably obtained not more than one in five of the
fish killed by the explosion the remainder would float down-
stream, such fish as perch {Scicena australis), sea mullet [Mugil
spp.), and catfish [Tandanus and Neosilurus) being recognised.
Mayer^ has recently referred to the effects of high explosives
on fish, especially on those possessing a swim-bladder.
We believe that we may then rule out the Brisbane River
reports regarding the epidemic, but there is no justification
for attributing the widespread mortality elsewiiere to this
cause.
(2) EFFECT OF CLIMATE.
This should be treated under two headings — (a) the influ-
ence of dry weather and (6) the effect of temperature — but we
have not sufficient data to allow us to consider them separately.
' A. G. Mayer, Yearbook, Carnegie Institution 1917, No. 16 pp
185-6; abstract in J.R.M.S., 1919 (3), p. 239.
