192 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF QI •EENJ;LAND.
(ii) BuUoo River. — Weather records for Adavale shew that
June and July 1917 were drier and colder than the noimal,
being, however, only verj^ slightly colder for July. The out-
break was re^Dorted in August but probably began in July.
June 1918 was again colder and drier than normal. The
epidemic began about the end of July and ceased after a hcsh
had occurred in the river in August. It reappeared in August
1919.
(iii) Mclntjjre River. — With regard to the epidemic occur-
ring in the Mclntyre and Severn Rivers during July and
August 1918, the records shew that during June and July both
minimum and rainfall records were considerably below the
normal. The river was very low until rain fell in August.
(iv) Mary River. — Gympie weather records shew that June
1917 was colder and drier, and July 1917 much colder and
drier, than the normal. An epidemic was reported to have
occurred in the Mary River in August and September of that
year.
June and July 1918 were both still colder and drier than in
the preceding year, but no epidemic followed.
(v) Burnett River. — For the last ten days of June 1918 and
the first eighteen days of July frosts were experienced jDracti-
cally every night (twenty nights) at Eidsvold. We are indebted
to Dr. T. L. Bancroft for allowing us to use his records.
(vi) Georgina and Diamantina Rivers. — The outbreaks
took place in September, October, and November 1917 and from
June to September 1918, but none occurred during 1919.
Though the epidemic made its appearance during the dry
weather, conditions were not those of drought. Many local
people thought that cold was the cause of the trouble.
From the foregoing it will appear that cold is not a neces-
sary factor though it was a ver}^ common concomitant. Neither
is drought a necessary condition, though dry weather appeared
to be common to nearly all the outbreaks.
One can, however, state that dry cold conditions, and
especially abnormally dry weather, favour the epidemic, and
that the advent of sufiticient rain to set the rivers in motion
te minates it.
Heath (1883) found that certain species of fish were able
to survive after having been frozen in blocks of ice fo: a few
