6 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
The digestibility of the protein of the hays was determined
^y pepsin in vitro ; the digestibility of the carbohydrates was
arrived at according to Henneberg's rule* in preference to
accepting the digestibihty coefficients found for the varieties
elsewhere. For the meals the digestibiUties and starch equiva-
lents were as given by Kellner. The starch equivalents of the
prickly pear and haj's were obtained from the starch values
by deduction of -29 per cent, for each one per cent, of fibre (5).
The Strict Maintenance Requirement of Prickly Pear
Fed Steers.
The rations in the maintenance trials were generally suffi-
cient for the production of small gams. The nutrients of the
rations utihsed for preservation of body weight can be deduced
from the total nutrients by deduction of 3 lb. starch equivalent
and -3 lb. protein for each one pound gained, these amounts
being shown in feeding trials with oxen to be adequate for that
amount of fattening increase (6). 3y this method the require-
ment of individual steers for strict maintenance in the first
trials is found to range from 5-85 to 7-34 lb. starch equivalent,
and from -44 to -74 lb. digestible protein daily. In the second
trial the range was 5-50 to 7-43 lb. starch equivalent, and*-43
to -69 lb. digestible protein. Per 1,000 lb. hve weight the
average daily maintenance requirement of steers shown in the
first trials is 6-80 lb. starch equivalent and -62 lb. digest-
ible protein ; in the second trials G-39 starch equivalent and -56
lb. digestible protein. The figures agree closely with the main-
tenance requirement for oxen of other fodders shown by various
experiments — viz., 60 lb. starch equivalent and Gib. digestible
protein (5). The inference is that pricJcly pear nutrients are well
tLsed in the maintenance of steers and for production of body
weight increase.
The Appetite of Steers for Prickly Pear.
A study of the factors influencing the amounts of prickly
pear eaten by steers was made partly during the maintenance
trials and partly subsequent to them. The conclusions bearing
upon the appetite of steers for prickly pear are dealt with in the
following paragraphs : —
* See Crowthei and Ruston. J. Agric. Sci., vol. iv, 1914, p. 310.
