FRESHWATER FISH EPIDEMICS IN QUEENSLAND RI\ERS. 11)3
hours, piovidcd they weic f:lcAvly thawed out. Bumpus (1898)
suggested that the heavy mortahty of tile-fifh off Florida in
1878 might be due to a sudden diminution of temperature as a
result of an alteration of the Gulf Stream. Hofer, in his valuable
work on fish diseases (1906, pp. 87-93), gave an account of
the effects of cold on the skin of freshwater fish in Europe.
Wells, in one of his many papers dealing with the relation
of fish to their environment, stated that many species can
detect and react to temperature differences as small as 1 to 2
degrees Centigrade (1913, p. 339). Next year he published a
paper giving an account of his investigations regarding the
resistance and reactions to temperature (1914). He found that,
in the case of freshwater fish, the degree of resistance varied
with the species and with the size of the individual, large
specimens being more resistant to high temperatures than small
fish of the same species, ^^ilile small individuals were able to
adapt themselves more successfully to sudden changes from
warm to cold. He also reported that in no case did death result
from sudden change from a higher to a lower temperature,
though the widest range — viz., from the maximum for the
species do^^'n to freezing point — was tried. He admitted that
it was possible that a sudden and great lowering of tempera-
ture might cause death in the case of certain species. His
experiments showed that fish can detect and react to variations
of temperature amounting to only 01 degree Centigrade.
Shelford and Powers (1915, p. 325) ascertained that marine
fish were capable of detecting differences of -5° to -6° C, and
probabh" as low as -2° C.
3. STATE OF THE WATER.
This may be considered under various headings^ — viz.,
alterations in regard to amount of suspended matter or A^eeds,
the amount of gases (oxygen and carbon dioxide) present, in
the degree of alkalinity or acidity, and in the amount of salts
in solution.
(a) Suspended Matter.
We laio"«' that the amount of suspended matter in stagnant
pools dej^ends mainly on the chemical composition of the
Avater, since the presence of certain substances leads to the
precipitation of finely divided and colloidal material. One
might draw attention to the muddy water of a stream and the
clear water of adjacent " kopai "' holes rich in sulphate of lime.
