11)4 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROi'AL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
Under this heading one may refer to the presence of
organisms, wliether plant or animal, which could act mechani-
cally by interfering with the passage of water through the
fish -gills.
Reference was made to the suggestion that overgrowth
of water-weeds, including '"' umbrella grass," might cause
trouble. It is to be pointed out that weeds grow only under
certain conditions of light, depth, etc., and in the case of rooted
plants form only a fringe around deep lagoons. Sorhe of the
waterholes in which the epidemic occurred were many miles
long and up to 30 or more feet in maximum depth, the greater
part of the lagoons being too deep for rooted plant growth.
Abundance of green water-vegetation improves aeration,
though one must admit that organic decomposition results in
the using up of oxygen and the liberation of carbon dioxide
and other gases. Moreover, the presence of abundant decom-
posing matter is associated Avith abundance of saprophytic
and sajDrozoic organisms — e.g. fungi, bacteria, and certain
protozoa — all of which are using up oxygen instead of
liberating it.
Mr. Colbert referred to the deep-green colour of the water
in his locality, Lake Nash, during the periods in wliich the fLsh
epidemic occurred. The colour suggests that phytoflagellates
A^ere present in enormous numbers. It is not impossible
that they might set up some irritation of the gills and become
entangled in the mucus produced, and thus lead to partial or
complete suffocation. But the presence of this intense coloura-
tion does not seem to have been a constant feature of the
outbreaks, and suggests to us that the stagnant conditions
allowed the organisms to grow at a much more rapid rate than
they were being devoured by the various other organisms
present. As a rapid decomposition of these might cause the
liberation of toxic substances, the matter will be referred to
later, under the heading of poisons as possible causes.
(6) Effect of Alterations in Chemical Composition of
Water.
An analy.sis of samples of Longreach water, one from the
Thomson River and the other from an adjacent billabong, was
made by the Government Analyst, Mr. J. B. Henderson,
