P^HESIIWATER FISH El'IDEMICS IN QUEENSTiAND RIVERS. 197
amount of decaying organic matter, rainfall, and exposure of
the surface to winds. Hence great variation may occur within
the same body of water at different times. He stated (p. 344)
that small variations (e.g. 5 to 10 cc. COg per litre) from the
normal in regard to the amount of COg present apparently
produce ultimately effects similar to those caused by greater
variations (25 cc. COg per litre) in relatively short periods.
Certain species are more sensitive than others in this respect
and would therefore react first — i.e. they would endeavour to
move away from the adverse conditions. Resistance comes
into play when organisms cannot move away from unsuitable
surroundings but must adapt themselves to the unfavourable
environment. We know that fish are able to withstand stagnant
water during dry seasons by gulping air at the surface. We
also know that some fish are less affected than others. Wells
found — (1) that the presence of oxygen in large amounts (10 cc.
per litre) counteracted the detrimental effect of liigh CO2 con-
tent (50 cc. per litre) ; (2) that Ioav oxygen content (0-1 cc. per
litre) in alkaline water caused death sooner than when it
occurred in slightly acid water ; (3) that the resistance of fishes
to fatal concentrations and combinations of oxygen and carbon
dioxide varied A\ith the individual, with the species, and with
the weight, small fish being more resistant per unit weight
than were large ones.
Wells (1916) investigated the seasonal resistance of fishes
in the United States, and stated that as a result of several
years' observations i had been noted that in nature their
resistance to detrimental factors in general was lowest in
late summer (July to October) and highest in spring (February
to May or June). They were found to be least resistant just
after the breeding season.
Shelford and Allee had previously (1913) pointed out that
young fish were more sensitive to changes in regard to the
amounts of these two gases than older fish were, and that some
species reacted to a concentration of CO 2 as low as 5 to 7 cc.
per litre, and of oxj^gen as high as -7 to 1 cc. per litre.
Powers (1914) found that freshwater crayfishes reacted to
very weak concentrations of CO.^.
Wells (1918) stated that at a concentration of 10 cc. per
litre CO2 soon proved fatal to more sensitive species, and that
it ^^•as doubtful if there were any freshwater fish wliich could
