198 rROCEEDIXGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
continu(> to live in A\ater where the COg content averaged as
high avS G ec. per litre throughout the year, but that it was still
to be demonstrated whether there were any species of truly
freshwater fish which could reproduce Buceessfully in water
that was decidedly alkaline to phenolphtlialein throughout the
year. Shelford (1918c, pp. 45-6) pointed out that since COg
results from the decomposition of organic matter, in the process
of which oxygen is consumed, so the presence of any large
quantity of CO., nearly always indicates a lack of oxygen. He
thinks it probable that the CO 2 content should not average
more than 3 cc. per litre over breeding grounds, and more than
6 cc. per litre during the summer, as such quantities are not
usually accompanied by lack of oxygen. He suggested that the
amount of CO2 might be taken as an index of the suitability of
the water for fish-life." Wells (1915) found that the COg
optimum for the various species of freshwater fish experimented
upon under summer conditions varied from the acid side of
neutrality to 6 cc. per litre. Marine fish behaved differently as
they preferred slight alkalinity to acidity (Shelford and Powers,
1915; Shelford 1918c, p. 40 ; 1919). The time taken to kill
freshwater fish, using higher concentrations of acid, was found
by Wells to be proportional to the hydrogen ion concentration.^
This author gave considerable attention to the reactions of fish
to the ions of H and OH.^
* See also Birge and Juday (1914, pp. 583-7) regarding the
distribution of COg in lakes. Also Shelford, 1918c, pp. 40-1 ; 1914.
^ " The theory of solution explains acidity in water by the occurrence
of hydrogen ions, formed from dissolved electrolytes, in excess of hydroxyl
ions ; and alkalinity by a similar excess of hydroxyl over hydrogen ions.
Neutrality is, then, the condition when, as in pure water, the two concen-
trations are equal." (L. J. Henderson, The fitness of the environment.
MacMillan, New York, 1913, p. 142.)
^ By titration, using phenolphthalein an d methyl orange as indicators,
Wells (1915) determined the amount of COg present in a fixed condition
(as carbonates), " half bovind " (I.e. bicarbonates), and .free (as COg),
since methyl orange remains unaffected by carbonic acid so that the
bases present as carbonates or bicarbonates can be titrated with an acid ;
while carbonates are alkaline to phenolphthalein, bicarbonates neutral,
and free CO, acid. Methyl orange is very sensitive to OH ion whereas
the latter indicator reacts to the H ion instead and consequently gives
an acid reaction with COj- In the presence of COg, methyl orange will
give an alkaline reaction though the water may still be acid owing to the
presence of a higher concentration of H than OH ion. — See also Shelford,
1919b.
