FRESHWATER FISH EPIDEMICS IN QUEENSLAND RIVERS. 19r>
Distilled water has been shown to be toxic to various
organisms owing to its influence on the permeability of the gill
membranes, leading to the loss of salts by the animal and the
absorption of water by osmosis (Abbot, 1913). Such water was
found by Wells (1915, pp. 241, 254) to be not toxic if rendered
slightly acid, but remained so if made slightly alkaline.
The following extract from Wells's paper (1915, pp. 243-4)
is of interest : — " The fact that in natural bodies of water the
chemical reactions of the water may vary from alkalinity
through neutrahty to acidity, or the reverse, makes he practical
importance of a knowl?dg3 of the reactions and resistance of
fishes and other organisms to such chemical conditions an
obvious one. From the experiments (referred to in his paper)
it is clear that water which giv^s an alkaline reaction to
phenolphthalein for any length of time during the year is
undesirable as a home for most freshwater fishes. On the
other hand, marine fishes with the exception of anadromous
species would probably not survive in water which was even
faintly acid. Since algae or other phytoplancton forms may
cause a body of water to become wholly or partly alkahne,
through their abihty to dissociate the bicarbonates, vegetation
in fish waters assumes a line of importance heretofore little
considered. The effects of sewage upon the acidity or alkahnity
of natural bodies of Avater must be reconsidered in the light
of its possible injurious or beneficial effects due to its chemical
action. . . . Henderson's work (1913)^ on the mechanism
which maintains a constant proportion of H and OH ions :n the
blood of animals, suggests the physiological reason for this
extreme sensitiveness of the fishes. Very small variations in
the proportions of these two ions in the blood of the organism
are of grave importance and we find in the blood a combination
of gases and salts that makes such variations impossible as long
as the animal is normal. The blood will maintain its normal
chemical reaction (just on the alkaline side of neutrahty) in the
face of relatively large changes in the environment, yet we
know that the mechanism breaks down when the change is either
too gr at or too long continued. . . . The hypersensitiveness
of the animals to the chemical reaction of the water
in the case of aquatic organisms is another important factor
in preserving the normal reaction of the blood, as the reactions
^ L. .J. Henderson, The fitness of environment. McMillan, New
York, 1913.
