200 I'KOCEEDINGS OP THE ROYAL SOCIETY OP QUEENSLAND.
of the organisms work in a way that causes them to turn back
from concentrations of H and OH ions that Mould be detri-
mental. . . . The physiological effect of the acid, neutral,
and alkaline water upon the organism very probably has to do
with decrease or increase in the pe meability of the exposed
tissue cells (especially the gills in the case of fishes)." Alkalinity
increased and acidity at first caused a decrease in permeability,
but acidity if increased caused an increase in permeability,
so that, as' in the case of alkalinity, death was ultimately the
result. In regard to marine fishes the results of Shelf ord and
Powers indicated that the action of alkaline water produced a
normal permeability of the membranes, and it is likely that
an acid condition of the water would kill such fish by diminish-
ing the permeability (Wells, 1915, p. 245).
As already stated, the appearance of the affected Queens-
land fish suggested suffocation, while the bulging of the eyes
noted by some observers strengthens the suggestion that the
water contained excess of carbon dioxide.^
(larbon monoxide is very poisonous to freshwater fish
(Shelford, 1917). Wells (1918, p. 562) ascertained that a con-
centration of from 75 to 100 cc. per litre COg would be required
to produce as deadly results as 1 cc. per litre CO, and that a
saturated solution of CO in water did not lose its toxic effects
even after two weeks' exposure to the air (p. 563).
Another gas which is formed as a result of organic decom-
position, and may be added to water supplies as a result of
pollution by industrial waste, is sulphuretted hydrogen.
Shelford and Powers (1915 ; Shclford, 1918b) drew attention
to the extreme sensitiveness of fish to this gas, as they endea-
voured to avoid the presence of even a fraction of a cubic
centimetre per litre. Fish died in a few minutes in water
containing 7-6 cc. HgS per litre, and a combination of this gas
with CO2 was reported to be " exceedingly deadly." " Since
decomposition yields COg and consumes oxygen and is accom-
panied by the production of hydrogen sulphide which is also
accompanied by the consumption of oxygen, it is reasonable
to suppose that on a bottom from which vegetation is absent
and decomposition actively takes place, a fatal combination of
lack of oxygen and presence of hydrogen sulphide and probably
^ For references to " pop-eye" of fishes see C. C. Farr, Rep. Austr.
Assoc. Adv. Sci. 13, 1911 (1912), p. 354 ; Ogilby and McCulloch, Mem..
Q'land Museum, 5, 1916, p. 112.
