FRESHWATP:R PISII epidemics in QUEENSLAND RIVERS. 201
carbon dioxide can quickly develop " (Shelf ord and Powers,
1915, p. 322). No doubt, in the case of the Queensland epidemics
HgS has played an important role in aggravating the condition,
though it probably did not cause it in the first place.
Ammonia is very toxic to fish and is apparently not
recognised by them, as they do not react in such a way as to
avoid it when given the opportunity (Wells, 1915a).
The reactions and resistance of fishes in their natural
environment to salts were studied by Wells (1915b), who used
the chloiides, nitrates, and sul_ hates of the commoner bases —
e.g. sodium, ammonium, potassium, calcium, and magnesium.^
He found — (1) that freshwater fish reacted to their presence in
solution but were not as sensitive to salt ions as to H and OH
ions ; (2) that they reacted to combinations of antagonistic
salts or salt and acids in a manner which tended to bring
them into a region of optimum stimulation ; and (3) that
rhythmic alterations in metabolic activity in the case of
anadromous fish (such as salmon) were correlated Math their
migrations .
Powers (1917) has studied the relative toxicity of the
chlorides and nitrates of the alkalies and alkaline earths, as v/cll
as various other substances, on goldfish. He pointed out that
it is improbable that toxicity of a substance is due to osmotic
pressure.
Reduction in salinity as a result of flood-waters being
turned aside to cover certain Japanese reefs^** led to very great
destruction of marine algse and the associated fauna.
4. Poisons as a Possible Cause of the Epidemic.
Apart from the toxic effects likely to be caused by the
agencies referred to in the last section, one can probably
dismiss the possibility of the mortahty being caused by a
poison — e.g. one of plant or mineral origin — on account of the
wide area involved, the different flora in each region, the
different types of water, and the character of the outbreaks.
^ Whetmore (1918) in his investigations regarding the epidemic
amongst wild ducks in Utah, U.S.A., proved that it was due to alkaU
poisoning, especially by the chlorides of calcium and magnesium which
are brought to the surface of the soil of the swamps by capillary attraction.
loYendo, Econ. l^roc. Roy. Dublin Soc, 2, 1914, pp. 105-122 (not
available). (See aZsop&'.ors by Sumner (Bull. Bur. Fisheries 25, 1905(1906)
pp. 53-108) and Scott ~d IS, 1908 (1910), pp. 1145-1150) regarding the
effects on the blood o\ is 'i 5S "^f r-.hanges in salinity and density of water.
