202 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OP QUEENSLAND.
In a report Mr. J. B. Henderson stated that toxic effects
Avere not produced by a sample of the water in which the
epidemic had occurred, when a fish was kept in it for 48 hours.
It should be pointed out, however, Ihat all species are not
equally suscej)tible, and that it was possible that gaseous
poisons, if such were the cause, may have escaped or have
become altsred.
The possibility of some toxic substance being liberated as a
result of decomposition of myriads of dinoflag ellates has been
mentioned. It is laiown that certain phytoflagellates, especially
Peridinium, Gonyaulax, and allied forms, have caused very
serious epidemics amongst various organisms, the result being
brought about by the death of immense numbers of these
tiny organisms, the decomposition products destroying fish,
molluscs, etc., In fact, such water, which is generally coloured
reddish by these flagellates, is often spoken of as '" poison
water." The animals so killed, on decomposing, aggravate the
condition so that widespread mortality has been caused.
In the " Sydney Morning Herald " of 27th December 1918,
attention was drawn to the " red weed pest " destroying fish
and oysters owing to its extraordinary abundance in Port
Macquarie, N.S.W. Mr. A. H. Lucas^^ described this dull-red
seaweed as Falkenbergia olens. He stated that it probably
lived on plants in deeper water, being brought inshore in great
masses at irregular intervals, sometimes collecting on oyster-
beds with disastrous results, oAving to its rapid decomposition
and putrefaction, a great deal of gas being evolved.
Hedley (1915, p. 29) referred to two sudden and widespread
epidemics which occurred amongst sedentary intertidal organ-
isms in Port Jackson in 1866 and 1891. In regard to the latter
Whitelegge (1891) reported that immense numbers of the dino-
flagellate Glenodinimn rubrum caused the clogging of the
gills of various molluscs and led to their death and ultimately,
through their decomposition, to the destruction of great
numbers of other organisms.
Other accounts of heavy mortality amongst marine fish,
caused by flagellates, have been published by Torrey, 1902
[Gonyaulax — Cahfomian Coast in 1901] ; Gilchrist, 1914
[Noctiluca, Peridinium — South Africa] ; Hornell, 1917 [Eugle-
11 A. H. Lucas, Notes on Australian Marine AlgEP, P.L.S. N.S.W.
44, 1919 (pp. 175-6).
