FRESHWATER FISH EPIDEMICS IN QUEENSLAND RIVERS. 203
noids — South India] ; Nishikawa, 1901 [Gonyaulax — Japan].
Taylor (1917) rejects these as being a likely cause of certain
epidemics in Florida waters, one being previously reported b}-
Ingersoll (1882).
5. OVERSTOCKING.
Overstocking is commonly regarded as being the cause.
Owing to dry weather, the rivers and waterholes shrink con-
siderably, and as a consequence there is much less water and
food for the fish which come to occupy the restricted areas.
It seems likely that overstocking may be a contributing factor
to the epidemic. The increased number of fish would use up
more food and oxygen and liberate more CO.2, wliich would
lead to ill effects unless there were increased plant activity
to preserve the balance and so prevent the water from
becoming more and more acid. Besides, should the real cause
of the epidemic be some protozoan, fungoid, or bacterial
organism, then the greater density of the fish population
would be favourable to the rapid spread of the disease.
6. PARASITISM AS A POSSIBLE CAUSE.
It is well loiown that organisms may cause serious
epidemics. Animal parasites likely to be incriminated may be
(a) Helminths, and (6) Protozoa such as (i) Sporozoa (Myxo-
sporidia and Microsporidia), or (ii) Flagellates, perhaps Cihates.
Amongst plant parasites one must consider (c) Fungi and {d)
Bacteria.
(a) Helminth Infection.
The cyanosed appearance of infected fish suggested the
possibility of gill parasites, especially Heterocotylean Trema-
todes, being a cause, through their interference with normal
gill function. It is known that infection is sometimes extremely
heavy, and Ward (1918, p. 374) has stated that Gyrodactylus
may be in sufficient numbers to cause death. McCallum (1915,
p. 410) has reported that infestation by Diplectanum may be
so intense as to bring about the death of its host. Pratt (1919,
p. 2) has also referred to gill-infesting trematodes as a cause of
considerable mortality, especially in enclosed bodies of water.
Magath (1917, p. 59) in a paper dealing with a fluke, Lissorchis,
which was regarded as causing heavy losses amongst certain
fish in Iowa, U.S.A., mentioned that some parasites so weaken
their hosts that the latter may die from some cause which
would otherwise not have so affected them.
