204 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROVAL SOCIETY OP QUEENSLAND.
A careful examination of a considerable number of affected
and healthy fish, cliiefly from the Thomson River, revealed the
presence of many species of Gyrodactyloid trematodes infesting
the gills in both cases, so that invasion by the minute parasites
can at most be only a contributing factor and not the cause
of the outbreaks.
Tliough an examination of the viscera revealed the pre-
sence of digenetic trematodes, various nematodes and echino-
rhynchs, as well as occasional cestode larvae, none of these can
be incriminated. The marked fatty degeneration of thc^
viscera has already been mentioned.
(b) Protozoa as a Cause.
(i) Sporozoa.
Of the Sporozoa the most important groups in the present
connection are the Myxosporidia and the Microsporidia. It
is well Icnown that some species give rise to epidemics amongst
freshwater fish, while many produce lesions resulting in the
death of the host, though an epidemic may not follow. The
best loiown is Myxobolus jjfeijferi Thel., wliich at times brings
about a tremendous destruction of barbels in the Moselle,
Rhine, Meuse, Marne, Aisne, and Seine. Full accounts of this
Myxobohasis are given by Hofer (1906, p. 71) and Gurley
(1894, p. 227), in whose Avorks further references to literature
are to be found. The fatty degeneration which takes place as a
result of that disease reminds one somewhat of the condition
commonly associated with the Australian outbreaks, but the
" boil formation" so common in the barbel disease is not
manifested in our epidemics. Though some observers have
referred to the presence of a bluish swelling on the under side of
affected fish, it is not a constant feature and is certainly not of
the type associated with the European epidemics. A dis-
inteo"ration of muscular tissue of fish is also caused by certain
other Sporozoa — e.g. some species of Chloromyxum and Glugea
{G. destruens Thel.).
Though some of the diseased fish first examined by us were
found to be parasitized by Myxosporidia, belonging to the
genera Myxobolus, Myxosoma, Myxidium, and Henneguya, and
occurring in various organs such as the gills, gall-bladder, and
kidneys, yet a search through healthy material showed 1he
