FRESHWATER FISH EPIDEMICS IN QUEENSLAND RIVERS. 207
of bacterial origin, and that various local and climatic con-
ditions favour it. We then offer the suggestion that the
epidemic may be due to a high acidity on account of excess
of CO2 in stagnant water, favouring the spread of a virulent
bacterial disease amongst the weakened fish. The presence
of Saprolegnia aggravates the condition, as probably also does
hydrogen sulphide, which is itself a decomposition product
resulting from the effects of the disease.
SUMMARY.
A very destructive epidemic makes its appearance amongst
freshwater fish in Queensland and Northern Territory at very
irregular intervals, usually during dry and cold conditions,
ceasing when the rivers run freely. The affected streams belong
to various watersheds — e.g., Lake Eyre basin (Cooper's Creek,
Diamantina, Georgina, Thomson, and Wilson Rivers) ; Bulloo
River ; Warrego River ; Darling system (Mclntyre and
Severn Rivers) ; Flinders system (McKinley River) ; Burnett.
It is apparently not due to the follo^^^ng : — Use of explosives ;
dry weather ; low temperature ; overstocking ; animal para-
sites (helminth or protozoon).
It is suggested that the prime cause will be found to be
a bacterial organism, whose spread is favoured by a high
acidity of the water due to excess of CO2. The presence of the
fungus Saprolegnia aggravates the disease, as no doubt does
hydrogen sulphide also.
ADDENDUM.
Dr. J. Shirley informed us that a series of epidemics
causing considerable mortality occurred in the Logan River,
in South-eastern Queensland, during the drought years just
prior to 1902, but further information regarding these out-
breaks is not yet available.
Mr W. B. Alexander supplied us with the followmg state-
ment which is of interest. Early in July 1921 a steamer
arrived at Fremantle with its hold on fire, and large quan-
tities of water were pumped into it. Among the cargo was
a consignment of cyanide for the Kalgoorlie mines, which
partly dissolved and entered the harbour water, causing the
death of a large number of fish belonging to many different
species. The occurience was reported in the Perth daily
Press,
