abstract of proceedings. xv
Abstract of Proceedings, 28th November, 1921.
The Ordinary Monthly Meeting of the Society was held
in the Geology Lecture Theatre of the University at 8 p.m.
on IMonday, 28th November, 1921.
The President, Mr. C. T. White, F.L.S., in the chair.
The minutes of the previous monthly meeting were read
and confirmed.
Dr. A. J. Sawyer was nominated for Ordinary Member-
ship.
^Ir. J. II. Reid was elected as an ordinary member.
Dr. J. Shirley, F.M.S., exhibited specimens of Arcidfe
from the following localities : — Area mosanibicana Bianconi,
Solomon Islands ; A. nigra Lamy, Moreton Bay, usually
reported as A. tenehrica; A. scaplm, Moreton Bay; A.
velJicata Reeve, Elliot River. All these shells formed part
of the collection of the late Dr. May, of Bundaberg, and were
determined by i\Ions. Lamy of the Museum of Natural
History, Paris.
Mr. H. A. Longman, F.L.S., exhibited the type specimen
of Nyctimene tryoni, a new species of Megachiroptera,
secured by Mr. D. Lahey at Canungra, South Queensland,
and described in the Memoirs of the Queensland INIuseum,
vol. vii, part 3. The occurrence of this tubular-nosed bat
so far south of previous records for the genus was of special
interest.
]Mr. C. T. AVhite, F.L.S., exhibited specimens of
Hcdypnois polymorphs Linn., a Mediterranean plant found
as a naturalised alien near Brisbane by Mr. F. F. Coleman ;
Cidioriurn, intyhus Linn., the Chicory, and Carthamus
lanatus Linn., the Saffron Thistle, both naturalised in
Queensland for some years past but only now showing a
tendency to become bad weeds; and Lamium amplexicaule
Linn.. Henbit or Dead Nettle, with which feeding experi-
ments have recently been conducted in New South Wales
showing the plant to be capable of causing the disease
popularly known in Australia as "Staggers" or "Shivers."
As yet the last-mentioned example is not a very common
weed in Queensland.
Professor T. Harvey Johnston, ]\I.A., D.Sc, read a paper
by himself and Miss ]\I. J. Bancroft, B.Sc, entitled "The
Freshwater Fish Epidemics in Queensland Rivers." Dr.
Shirley, Hon. A. J. Thynne, and Messrs. Longman, Syiow,
and Alexander discussed the paper.
