PRICKLY PEAR AS STOCK FEED. SMITH.
11
more observant stockmen by a more swarthy hue of the joints
and by the beaiing of few, aborted, or seedless fruits. The
joints are thicker, incHning to cUib-hke, are less acid, and have
a shghtly fruity odour when cut. Dr. "White-Haney at the
Dulacca Station (8) devoted some attention to plants apparently
identical ^^ith those noticed, principally in the direction of
estabhshing absence of fecundity in the flower. Dr. White-
Haney did not, however, note the comparative absence
of prickle Avhich the author has observed to be a constant
characteristic.
The relative palatability of ordinary and cow pear were
tested bj' placing both forms, prepared by shcing, before the
experimental animals. For a few days there was sho\Mi a dis-
tinct preference for the cow pear, due no doubt to appreciation
of its lesser acidity after the ordinary form ; thereafter the
ordinary form appeared to be eaten with as much relish.
In Table 8 are compared the compositions of cow pear and
ordinary prickly pear at the same season, and also the utilisation
of each when fed over two periods to a group of animals in the
second maintenance trials : —
Table 8. — Ordixaet Prickxy Pear and Cow Pe.uj.
i
COMPOSITION.
utili-
sation-.
j Water.
Bry
Matter.
. . 1 C. C. X.-free Ether
ASD. 1 Protein. Fibre. Extract. Extract.
S.E.
per day.
Ordinary 87-25
Prickly i>ear
Ck)w pear 83- 16
12-75
16-84
218 -35 1-25
1-93 -33 1 1-76
8-66
12-72
•'11
•10
Lb.
4-40
4S0
The higher utilisation sho^\'n for the coav pear may be
attributed to its superior drjTiess.* {See p. 9.) The prefer-
ence shown for cow pear by cattle at pasture is, no doubt, due
to the absence of prickliness, such prickle as is present being
soft and downy in character. The ordinary form was equall}-
acceptable ^^hen its abundant prickle was detached and
abraded by passage through the cutter, or softened by the
juice exuding from the sUced and pulped joints.
* Dr. AMiite-Haney's " Abnormal form" also has a lower water
content than ordinary prickly pear.
