12 proceedings of the royal society of queensland.
The Wholesomeness of Prickly Pear.
The good condition of the steers at the conclusion of seven
to eight months' feeding was evidence that prickly pear is a
wholesome cattle feed. Certain of the animals were slaughtered
and made subject of post-mortem examination. The report
(10) of the veterinary surgeon, Mr. A. McGown, M.R.C.V.S.,
states that the carcasses were well nourished and entirely
healthy ; flesh of good colour, nicely grained, and of good
quahty ; fat evenly distributed, good clear white in colour
and of good quality. Certain changes were evident in the
alimentary canal — viz., some signs of occasional slight ulceration
of tongue and fauces, roughened palate, and enlarged papillae
both of cheek and rumen, thickened and toughened mucous
membrane of certain organs.
The slight lesions described would have been caused by
portions of spines included in the feed. They are accidental
rather than necessary effects of the feeding of chopped 0.
inermis. Animals browsing the pest pear are apt, however, to
sustain some injury from spines, as evidenced by spines occa-
sionally found embedded in the tongue and the occurrence of
abscess of the jaw and fauces. Cattle constrained by hunger to
browse the prickly form of O. inermis may suffer from sore
mouth to an extent preventing further feeding. The altera-
tions noted in the post-mortem are ascribed to the prickle
ingested and the nature of the feed.
Ranchers in Texas are reported to lose cattle from the
effects of accumulation of prickly pear fibre in the stomachs
(2). The condition is said never to occur from feeding chopped
prickly pear, and is obviated by inclusion of a reasonable
amount of other feed in the dietary. In local experience it would
appear that fibre balls are but rarely encountered in slaughtered
beasts. Cases of bloat are reported from America. Bloat
could, no doubt, be caused by surfeit. The amount of 0.
inermis that steers are willing to eat appears, however, to be
substantially lower than obtains with certain American species .
Owing probably to the watery character of the feed and the
low fibre content, rumination is restricted in animals receiving
a high proportion of prickly pear in the dietary. The assertion
that has been made that feeding on prickly pear unfits cattle
for grass pasturage ^is, however, negatived by the fact that
steers employed in the trials subsequently made good gains
at grass and were eventually marketed in prime condition.
