prickly pear as stock feed. smith. 13
The Utility and Limitations of Prickly Pear as a
Roughage for Steers.
The trials here described demonstrate the ability of rations
comprising a high proportion of prickly pear properly supple-
mented by other feeds to produce substantial gains in steers.
Prickly pear is a satisfactory sole roughage fed with meals.
The insuflKciency as a maintenance feed of prickly pear
alone was shown in the first maintenance trials when three
steers receiving it and no other feed rapidly lost weight, scoured
badly, and exhibited stariness of coat and other signs of un-
thriftiness. Steer No. 1 6, iriitially in rather low store condition,
showed signs of wealoiess at the end of fifty days, when all
three were given meal or lucerne in addition to prickly pear.
Thereupon improvement in appearance and condition was
soon noticed.
Animals receiving a medium allowance of ordinary hays,
though maintaining body weight during sixty and sixty-five
day periods, showed in dvilness of coat sign of unthriftiness
attributable to improper rather than insufficient feed.
Besides its use as a maintenance feed and drought emer-
gency fodder, the employment of prickly pear in rations for
fattening steers is reported from Texas, cotton-seed meal
being generally combined \vith it for the purpose. Griffiths (1)
records good results with this ration at Encinal, Texas. Twenty-
seven head fed chopped prickly pear, and consuming 96 lb.
per head and about 4-4 lb. cotton-seed meal daily, averaged
in gain If lb. per day. For this result the starch equivalent
of the daily ration would have approached 12 lb., of which
the prickly pear contributed 9 lb.
With 0. inermis the highest ration, including medium allow-
ance of meal, consumed by steers does not, as shown in the
experimental part of this paper, much exceed 10 lb. starch
equivalent, adequate only to production of 1 lb. fattening
increase daily. It is also shown that increase of meal with the
object of improving the ration would reduce the amount of
prickly pear eaten, and the total nutritive value of the ration
would not be increased proportionately to the added meal.
A rate of fattening increase equal to that of the Texan experi-
ments quoted coiold not, therefore, be procured except by
including high amounts of meal in the feed, which would then
comprise a comparatively low proportion of prickly pear.
