14 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OP QUEENSLAND.
The inferior utility for purposes of fattening that is shown
for 0. inermis might reasonably be attributed to a lower
palatability to cattle thai> is possessed by the species employed
in the Texan trials. The medium order of palatability demon-
strated for it would indicate that the utility of the pest pear
for beef cattle is as a maintenance feed rather than as- a roughage
in rations designed for economic productive purposes.
Agistment Problems.
There has been much variance of opinion among cattle-
men as to the value of standing prickly pear in agistment, and
considerable uncertainty has existed as to the factors con-
tributing to the carrying capacity of prickly pear lands. It
has been commonly held that prickly pear has been instrumental
in drought in saving cattle not removed to more favoured
regions for pasture, and that at all seasons dense prickly pear
areas are capable of carrjdng and turning out a certain number
of beasts in fat condition. It has also been claimed that cattle
can exist for long periods or indefinitely with no other water
supply than is provided by succulent prickly pear, and that
access to water may be attended by harmful or even fatal
results.
It is thought possible to obtain a solution of certain vexed
questions in prickly pear agistment by application of the
results of the feeding trials. It has been shown that the
various forms of prickly pear differ but slightly in nutritive
value and utiUty to the beast, save that the comparatively
prickle-free form (cow pear) alone aUows of free browsing.
Prickly pear alone, chiefly due to poverty in protein, has been
shown to be insufficient for the maintenance of cattle, which
depends on provision of protein-supplying feeds as supplements
to the prickly pear.
In many areas the deficiency of protein of prickly pear
is made good by naturally occurring edible shrub. In the
typical prickly pear scrubs of the Maranoa there were observed
as many as thirty varieties of shrub or small tree recognised
by consensus of reUable opinion as edible to cattle, though of
varpng palatability and protein content. The main factors
in the carrying capacity of j)rickly pear areas are abundance
of edible prickly pear (" cow pear") and sufficiency of j^rotein-
supplying edible shrub — conditions that no doubt characterise
the best prickly pear scrubs. A combination of prickly pear
