PRICKLY PEAR AS STOCK FEED. — SMITH. 15
and lucerne hay in mecliuni amount was sho^Ti in the trials
to be capable of producing in steers increase exceeding | lb.
per day. A similar ration of prickly pear and edible shrub,
which should be not infrequently obtainable in the scrubs,
would, there appears every reason to assume, be productive
of similar increase. The limitation of the prickly pear ration
by the restricted appetite sho\ATi for it by steers would, how-
ever, generally Umit the rate of fattening increase to a moderate
figure, which, though attained in the earlier stages of fattening,
would be insufficient to ultimately, in the most favourable
circumstances, produce beasts of more than moderately fat or
good store condition.
Accordingly as the edible pear is Umited in amount or
the edible shrub is insufficient, cattle ^\-ill fail to do well. The
prime beast occasionally reported would appear to be excep-
tional and to depend on utihsation of other and better grazing
than pricldy pear and shrub, or on a higher appetite for prickly
pear than is sho^^Ti by the average animal.
The appetite of steers for prickly pear is such as to enable
their water requirements to be satisfied by the plant at least
in cool weather. In hot seasons the highest degree of succulence
may suffice, whereas in prolonged drought, owing to the drying
out of the prickly pear, the holding of cattle on unwatered
country is no doubt highly hazardous, and may entail heavy
loss. The administration of water to prickly pear fed animals
has been shown to be, per se, unharmful. Yet it would appear
that close frequentation of water by cattle during ver}' hot
seasons might prove a disadvantage, owing to depletion of the
edible prickly pear in the \4cinity and eating out of ecUble shrub.
The reported losses of prickly pear agisted cattle ha\dng access
to water would seem to be accidental, due in drought to
immoderate drinking of w^ater induced by prolonged thirst,
and would include animals that have perished after bogging
at the margins of waterholes.
The appetite displayed by milking cows for prickly pear
{see Part II.) would indicate that, if the supply of protein-
rich shrub is abundant, cows will be maintained in milk sufficient
for the nourishment of calves at foot. The very limited appetite
of calves for prickly pear* would show that prickly pear and
shrub browse, partly because of the inaccessibility of the
* The authors experiments with calves not here reported.
