16 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
shrub, will not adequately provide for sustenance and growth
of young stock, which, indeed, appears to be the experience of
most cattle-men.
PART II.— PRICKLY PEAR FOR DAIRY HERDS.
Griffiths (2) records the regular use of prickly pear for
dairy herds in Texas, and later (1) shows its suitability for
roughage in a trial with two milk cows. In Sardinia employ-
ment in suitable rations is regarded as advantageous. More
recently Woodward, Turner, and Griffiths (9), in a compre-
hensive trial at Brownsville, Texas, have demonstrated the
possibility of using prickly pear in considerable proportion in
rations for milk production. Locally, apart from a limited
use of the boiled joints generally fed with bran or the enforced
browsing of edible prickly pear in drought, the plant has not
found any general use for dairy herds.
The utility of prickly pear as a feed for dairy cows depends
fundamentally on the actual value of the prickly pear nutrients
in the rations, but will be conditioned by such considerations
as the cost of feeds, both relative and actual, with which
it might be fed or replace in the ration. In tliis paper the
value of the ]:iutrients of prickly pear in milk production alone
is discussed without reference to the economic side.
Plan of Experiment.
In the author's main experiments fifteen dairy cows were
utilised — pure and grade Ayrshires, grade Shorthorns, and
Jersey grade. Of these, seven were acquired in the district
and were doubtless accustomed to prickly pear in the pasture.
The plan was to compare prickly pear as a roughage feed,
both as regards its efficiency in the ration and effect on the
quahty of the product, with a usual roughage, which in this case
was mature Soudan grass {Sorghum var.) hay coarsely chaffed.
The concentrates completing each ration were wheat-bran and
linseed meal in equal quantities.
As it was evident fron^the work with steers that prickly
pear was not a highly palatable feed, it appeared probable
that enough would not be eaten by the cows, when liberally
supplemented by meal, to constitute a ration adequate to
high milk yields. Accordingly the trials were preceded by a
