PRICKLY PEAR AS STOCK FEED. SMITH. 23
COWS increased in weight during the trials, and were in satis-
factory condition at the conclusion. Cows 5 and 15 received
a ration of prickly pear and meal continuously for 140 days.
Cow 5 averaged 24^ lb. milk per day at the beginning, and
finally 9 lb. per day ; during the period she jielded 1,926| lb.
of milk, containing 77-26 lb. of butter-fat. Cow 15 gave 2,634^
lb. of milk and 96-67 lb. of butter-fat ; at the beginning her
yield was 2Qh lb. of milk per day, and finally 17 lb. Both
increased in weight during the period.
Three other cows wliich were advanced in calf dried off
early and were each given 2 to 3 lb. meal per day with 70 to
80 lb. of prickly pear. They remained in excellent condition
and subsequently g%ve birth to well-formed and vigorous
calves.
The amount of succulent prickly pear eaten by cows
receiving a liberal allowance of meal was about 60 lb. per day.
The appetite of dairy cows for prickly pear is somewhat better
than that of steers, and is better maintained when other
feeds are liberally supplied. Nevertheless, as with steers, when
the amounts of supplementary feeds are increased the amount
of prickly pear consumed, even when the total feed given is still
below the capacity of the cow, is progressively diminished.
This fact, evidence of at most medium palatabihty of
prickly pear, in conjunction with the inferior value of prickly
peat nutrients for milk production, would render prickly pear
rations, employing prickly pear in high or medium amounts,
inadequate to maintain the full milk supply of liigh-yielding
cows. When amounts of meal are given to provide for high
milk yield, the amount of prickly pear taken will be small,
and the total ration inadequate to the yield. It is thought
that prickly pear and meal rations, containing prickly pear
as the sole roughage or in such amounts as might be fed with
a part roughage of hay, \^'ill not generally, provide for yields of
more than 2J gallons of milk per day. The supplementation
of prickly pear with legume hay in lieu of meal will, on account
of greater restriction of appetite for prickly pear due to the
bulkier feed, provide only for a lower level of milk yield.
0\nng to the greater reduction of butter-fat and depression
of milk yield produced by feeding in high amount and as the
sole roughage, it would be better to make the prickly pear
part of the roughage ration ^\ith hay. So fed, prickly pear
