26 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
gressively decreased, and when about "7 lb. starch equivalent
was given per sheep in the form of other feeds practically
no prickly pear was eaten.
Watering inhibits the consumption of prickly pear by
'sheep. In Experiments 1 to 5 in winter it was not deemed
necessary to water the sheep, save at infrequent intervals, and
the prickly pear eaten was higher than in the later experiments,
during wMch warmer weather necessitated watering at least
each fifth day. On days on which water was given the sheep
ate less prickly pear. The average prickly pear consumption
per head on days on Avlaich the sheep had no Avater was -28 lb.
starch equivalent ; when water was given, it receded- to -14 lb.
The Limited Utility of Prickly Pear as Sheep
Feed.
The indifferent palatability of prickly pear will hmit its
usefulness to that of an emergency drought fodder for the
maintenance of mature sheep ; for which purpose it mil be
a safe and economical feed and may compose up to 50 per cent,
of balanced rations, in which it is included. The failure noted
of a few sheep to subsist thereon does not affect the general
conclusion as to the utihty of prickly pear for maintenance ; and
even the reduced rations, due to occasional watering in warmer
seasons, would enable the animals to subsist, or preserve a lean
condition, over considerable periods. It will be evident that,
for the best results with prickly pear, sheep should be given
M^ater as infrequently as the season permits.
The author is of opinion that prickly pear where it occurs
might advantageously be made a portion of a drought ration
with the edible shrub commonly cut for sheep. The succulence
of the plants would tend to conserve water supplies, and
would i^rovide a corrective to the fibrous and astringent
foliage which may be productive of impaction and losses from
this cause.
Prickly pear is not sufificiently palatable to be included in
rations designed for fattening or adequate to the maintenance
of milk yield of ewes with lambs at foot.
A separate trial showed prickly pear to have no utility as
a feed for lambs. The animals ate little, and, when supplied
liberally with other feeds, refused prickly pear altogether.
