THE PHYLOGENETIC SIGNIFICANCE
OF THE PREHALLUX AND PRE-
POLLEX: A THEORY.
Bj' C. D. Gillies, M.Sc, and P. W. Hopkins, M.C.
(Plate I.)
{Read before the Royal Society of Qiieensland, 27th June, 1921.)
One of the most conspicuous discontinuities in the accepted
evolutionary scheme of the Tetrapodal Vertebrata lies between
the Fish on one hand and the Amphibia on the other ; this
hiatus is accentuated by the almost dramatic appearance of
the pentadactyl limb, or cheiropterygium, in its typical form
in the earliest laioAvn Tetrapoda, i.e. the Stegocephaha, and,
to add to the obscurity, embr3'ology has thrown but little
illumination upon the derivation of the appendage from the
Fish hmb or ichthyopterygium.
Those fish which are regarded as being nearest the Tetra-
poda, such as the Dipnoi and Crossopterygii, possess pelvic and
pectoral appendages typically piscine, whereas the most primi-
tive Amphibia are provided with limbs constructed upon the
pentadactyl plan, in common with the higher Tetrapoda.
Omitting the girdle, the cheiropterygium in its typical form is
usually resolved into five parts, viz. : —
(a) A proximal single long bone (e.g. femur) ;
(6) A set of two long bones (e.g. tibia and fibula), which
articulate with
(c) A series of small bones (e.g. tarsalia), followed by -
(c?) A set of five small elongated bones (e.g. metatarsals),
supporting
(e) Phalanges of the digits.
For a considerable period all the metacarpals and meta-
tarsals were regarded as being serially homologous in each
instance, but it has been subsequently shown that the so-called
first metacarpal and metatarsal are both homologous \Adth
phalanges. This being so, the question suggests itself, What
has happened to the true first metacarpal and metatarsal ?
The fate of these structures has engaged our attention for some
time and, as a result, in this paper is presented a theory which
we hope will satisfactorily explain the disappearance of these
bones.
So far as we can ascertain from the available literature we
believe that we have not been anticipated in our views.
