SIGNIFICANCE OF PREHALLUX AND TREPOLLEX. 31
THE PHALANGEAL AFFINITIES OF THE FIRST
" METACARPAL " AND " METATARSAL."
In the ontogeny of the human metacarpus and metatarsus,
it is found that each bone arises from two centres, a primary
and a secondary. From the first develops the corpus or body
of the bone, while from the second arises the epiphysis. In
regard to the second-fifth metacarpals and metatarsals, the
epiphysis is situated clistally, but in the case of the first meta-
carpal and metatarsal the epiphysis is proximal — a feature
characteristic of the phalanges. In addition to the method of
ossification there is the nature of the vascular supply. The
nutrient canal in both the phalanges and the first metacarpal
and metatarsal is directed towards the capitulum or " runs
from the elbow"; this is the reverse of that which occurs in
the remaining metacarpals and metatarsals.
After taking everything into consideration, the " meta-
carpal " and " metatarsal " of the thumb and big toe, respec-
tively, show such convincing phalangeal affinities that they ar©
now almost universally regarded by anatomists as being
homologous with phalanges, but on account of their analogy
with the series associated with them, as well as for convenience,
their names have not been changed.
The theories relating to the subject may be grouped under
three headings as follows : —
(a) Three phalanges present, metacarpal (or metatarsal)
absent ;
(6) Two phalanges present, metacarpal (or metatarsal)
present ;
(c) Two phalanges present, proximal component a
phalango-metacarpal (or phalango- metatarsal).
Of these the first is the most generally accepted and it is the
one supported by the authors. With reference to (6) and (c),
G. M. Humphrey, in 1858, jDractically combined these two
views, as he regarded the bone in the hand articulating with
the multangulum majus (trapezius) as intermediate between
a phalanx and a metacarpal, but on the whole he considered
that it showed more affinities with the latter ; furthermore he
was of the opinion that the missing phalanx is the second.
Wood- Jones (1920) favours the theory of regarding the
first element of the first digit as the metacarpal or metatarsal,
the second as the first phalanx, and the third as the fused second
and third phalanges.
