32 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
The validity of the epiphyseal argument has been ques-
tioned by Allen Thomson (1868, pp. 133-144), who pointed out
that the absence of a distal epiphysis in the first ' ' metacarpal ' '
and " metatarsal " is not constant, as there is an occasional
ajjpearance of an accessory distal epiphysis in both these bones
in man, and to a lesser degree accessory epiphyses may be
present in the remaining metacarpals and metatarsals. Thom-
son showed that these accessory epiphyses are normal in some
animals, and are much better developed than in the case of
man, viz. : —
(a) Distal and proximal epiphyses to all metacarpals
and metatarsals, e.g. Ornithorynchus ;
(b) Distal and proximal epiphyses in metatarsals, e.g.
seal ;
(c) Distal and proximal epiphyses to first metacarpal
and metatarsal, e.g. koala ;
(d) Distal and proximal epiphyses to first metacarpal
and metatarsal as an occasional variation, e.g. man.
Thomson summarised the position in a footnote (ibid.,
p. 143) as follows : — " These observations are interesting when
taken along with those that I have recorded on the seal, as
confirming the view of the inconstancy of the absence of a
distal epiphysis in the first metacarpal or metatarsal bone, and
in showing that we must distrust the position of the epiphyses
to these bones as the ground of a homological distinction."
Even after rejecting the epiphyseal argument as invalid,
in view of Thomson's statements, the nutrient canal has still
to be explained. In tliis worker's paper (ibid., p. 144, fig. 2-4)
these are figured antero-posterior longitudinal sections of the
first and second digits of the hand and foot of a child seven
years of age. Each of the metacarpals and metatarsals possesses
both proximal and distal epiphyses, but in regard to the
nutrient foramina the direction of the canal — as indicated by
bristles— in the first metacarpal and metatarsal is normal, i.e.
towards the head of the bone in the typical phalangeal manner ;
in the case of the other two bones, the direction of the canal
conforms to the true metacarpal and metatarsal type.
Broome (Anat. Anz. 28) favours the view that the proximal
position of the epiphysis in the first metacarpal is correlated
with the great mobihty of the first carpo-metacarpal articula-
tion, i.e. the resemblance to the phalanges is due to con-
vergence.
