SIGXIFICANCE OF PREHALLUX AND PREPOLLEX. 33
THE PREPOLLEX AND PREHALLUX.
These terms were given by Bardeleben, in 1885, to accessory
bones on the medial side of the carpus and tarsus respectively,
which either had previously been regarded as sesamoids or
were quite unknown ; the terms were first apphed to the
Mammalia, but it was subsequently shown that they also
occurred in the Reptiha and Amphibia. Bardeleben stated
(1889, p. 256) that these structures are found in certain members
of those orders of Mammalia provided with five functional
digits, viz., MarsupiaHa, Edentata, Rodentia, Insectivora,
Carnivora, and Primates. It is of interest to note that Thomson
(ibid., p. 139) stated that in those animals ha\ang fewer than
five digits (e.g. pig and ruminants) only distal epiphyses are
present in the metacarpals and metatarsals.
Bardeleben regarded the prepoUex and prehallux as
representing a degenerate sixth digit in the manus and pes
respectively ; he also believed that the pisiform and the
tuberositas calcanei represented a seventh digit, thus advocating
heptadactyly for the cheiropterygium. Gegenbaur attacked
these views, which resulted in Bardeleben re-examining his
theory, but he re-affirmed it unchanged. Theories relating to
hexadactyly and heptadactyly have never received much
support, which largely exj)lains their comparative obscurity.
Notwithstanding this, however, it is probable that, in the
evolution of the cheiropterygium from the ichthyopterygium,
Polydactyly was characteristic of the early stages, but the
pentadact}^ scheme must have become stereotyped very early
in the history of the Tetrapoda, as at present there is not
sufficient evidence to make ancestral Polydactyly more than
an hypothesis. Baur (1896, p. 669), in commenting on the
subject, remarked : '' It is the general opinion that the ancestry
of the vertebrates with a cheirojjterygium had numerous
digits, and there was considerable talk of an original hexa- or
heptadactylism. No support to this view is given by the
Stegocephalia : here we never have more than five digits,
very often only four, and entirely hmbless forms are found
even in the Carboniferous."
Again, Beddard (1902) is not a supporter of Polydactyly,
as he regarded the prepollex and prehallux as accessory
ossifications. Bardeleben (1889) described a nail associated with
the prepollex of the Cape jumping hare {Pedetes capensis), and
used the fact of the presence of such a structure with the
prepollex and prehallux as an important argument in favour
D
