34 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
of his theory, but Beddard (ibid.) showed that it loses weight
when it is remembered that the marsupial genus Omjchognle,
or nail-tailed wallaby, j)ossesses a nail-like appendage on the
extremity of its tail ; the lion is also similarly provided.
As mentioned above, Palaeontology does not support the
theory of Polydactyly, as the Stegocephali hitherto discovered
are never provided with more than five digits to the pes or
manus, and furthermore some of them may even be apodous.
In this connection Wood-Jones (1920, p. 16) states : " It is
true that Palaeontology has proved that the digitate limb may
possess more than five digits, but that is a very different thing
from demonstrating that any number greater than five repre-
sents a basal or primitive condition, for it is possible that the
increased number might be due to a secondary specialisation."
Embryology is equally silent. In the development of the
Amniote limb, never more than five digits have been observed
in normal cases, and all the digits appear simultaneously.
Frequently more digits are present in the embryo than in the
adult, as, for example, in the Aves a rudiment of the fifth toe
may arise in the embryo, but it degenerates later and is absent
in the adult ; this, of course, being in accordance with the
Law of Recapitulation. In the tailed Amphibia the develop-
ment of the digits proceeds in a different manner, the process
being one of budding. The first to appear are the first and
second digits, then the third, fourth, and fifth in order ; and
according to Baur there are never more digits in the embryo
than in the adult. Graham Kerr also states that there is a
tendency for the digits of Amphibia to develop in regular
sequence according to the number of digits in the adult. On
the other hand, it must be mentioned that Bardeleben (ibid.,
p. 256), stated that Kehrer maintains there is evidence for
believing heptadactyly occurs in the Urodela.
In the Reptilia the prepollex and prehallux do not appear
to be well represented, but in the Amphibia Anura the pre-
hallux is quite a conspicuous structure.
The Prepollex and Prehallux as the Missing Component
in the pollex and hallux respectively.
Baur has suggested (1896, p. 669) that the prepollex and pre-
hallux are of secondary origin, but, as Comparative Anatomy,
Palaeontology, and Embryology do not support theories of
