SIGNIFICANCE OF PREHALLUX AND PREPOLLEX. 35
primitive hexadactyly or heptadactyly within known geological
times, it does not appear tenable to regard either of these
bones as accessory digits. Again, there is not a tendency for
the adcUtion of digits ; on the contrary, there is a pronounced
movement towards reduction, and Flower (1885, p. 283) has
summarised the manner of reduction as follows : — When one
digit is lost, it is usually the first, then follows the fifth ; the
third is always retained though either two or four or both of
these digits may be absent.
. Graham Kerr (1919, p. 453), in commenting upon the
cheiropterygium, considers that there is greater anatomical
efhciency in the possession of a central digit supported on
each side by another digit ; and possibly the presence of an
additional digit outside these again is a further advantage.
This then implies that the third digit is the most essential
of the series, a conclusion quite in accord with Flower's Law
of Digital Reduction.
As nature seems so insistent upon the expression of
symmetry, to obtain this state of affairs with a six-digital
manus or pes it would necessitate shifting the axis of symmetry
from the third digit to the interval between the third and
fourth. This may appear to be the case in regard to the
Artiodactyle Ungulates (e.g. pig), but when the carpus and
tarsus are considered it will be seen that the symmetry of
the appendage is fundamentally of the pentadactyl type,
and that the shifting of the symmetry of the digits ta the
interval between the third and fourth is quite secondary,
and only applies to the digits themselves.
With reference to the Anuran prehallux, Gadow (1901,
p. 20) states that there are " five toes and the rudiment of a
sixth digit, the so-called prehallux, which consists of two to
four pieces, including the one representing the metatarsal.
This prehallux as a vestige of a once better developed digit
is exactly like the elements on the radial side of the wrist
which, we are certain, are the elements of a once complete
finger, the pollex. The only weighty difficulty against its
interpretation as a prehallux lies in the fact that hitherto no
six-toed Stegocephah have been found, but the fact that none
are known with more than four fingers could be used as an
argument against there being a pollex in recent Anura with
just as good reason."
