36 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
Gadow's argument with reference to the pollex and four-
fingered Stegocephah is invahd, for five-fingered forms are
known, e.g. Keraterpefon crassum (Zittel, 1902, p. 127) has
five digits in both manus and pes.
Beddard's suggestion regarding the prepollex and pre-
hallux as being accessory ossifications cannot apply to the
Anura, as such ossifications are not at all typical of the
Amphibia. The most characteristic accessory ossification in
the TetrajDoda is the pisiform of the carpus — a bone which does
not typically appear until the Reptilia are reached.
In connection Avith this paper, we examined, by means
of X rays, the pes of the folloAving Anura : — Adelotis brevis,
Hyla ccerulea, H. peronii, Limnodynastes tasmaniensis, Notaden
bennetti, and Rana pajiua. From the plate it wiU be observed
that there is no trace of the prehallux in H. peronii, A^. ben-
netti,' and E. papua, while in the remaining species a prehallux
is present lying on the medial side of the pes near the tarso-
metatarsal articulation ; in ^. brevis and H. ccerulea it consists
of two components and maybe in L. tasmaniensis also, though
in regard to the latter the prehallux may prove to be only a
sing'e bone.
In most textbooks it is usually stated that the prehallux
of the Anura consists of three or four pieces, of which the
proximal member represents the metacarpal, and the remaining
segments, the phalanges.
After carefully considering the data we advance the theory,
that the pirepollex and prehallux are the degenerate remnants of
the true first metacarpal and metatarsal of the manus and pes
respectively. We also regard the frequent occurrence of the
prehallux in the Anura as a point of conciliance in favour of
our theory, for by the Law of Recapitulation traces of the
missing first metatarsal (and metacarpal) might be expected
to occur in the Amphibia, which are almost universally con-
sidered to be the parent stock of the Tetrapoda. We consider
that the pentadactyle condition became stereotyped very
early in the history of the Tetrapoda, and that in these early
forms all the digits were provided with true metacarpals or
metatarsals as the case may be {see Fig. C). It is interesting
to note that Bateson (1894) mentions a number of cases of
variations in the human hand in which the thumb is provided
with three phalanges — a condition which may be regarded as
a reversion to the primitive type. Furthermore, it is significant
