SIGNIFICANCE OF PREHALLUX AND PREPOLLEX. 37
that, though an accessory phalanx may occasionally occur
in the thumb, the number of phalanges in the fingers, on the
whole, is remarkably constant. "^
Later, in the course of evolution, the true first meta-
carpal and metatarsal became disj)laced and subsequently
disappeared in the great majority of Tetrapoda. Its occur-
rence in the Amphibia is therefore correlated "with the lowly
position of the group, while its appearance in animals such
as TaJpa and Pedetes may either be due to persistence or
atavism. The multiple condition of the Anuran prehallux we
regard as the result of fragmentation consequent upon the
degeneracy of the structure and the mobility of the pes.
RECAPITULATION.
After examining the available literature, and from a
consideration of the material investigated, we summarise as
folloA^'s : —
(a) The first metacarpal and metatarsal of the manus
and pes are serially homologous with phalanges.
(6) In spite of the fact that the epiphj'seal argument
in favour of the phalangeal nature of the first meta-
carpal and metatarsal loses weight on account of
the normal presence of distal and j^roxiimil epiphyses
to these bones in certain animals, e.g. Koala, we
consider sufficient evidence still remains to regard
the first metacarpal and metatarsal as phalanges.
(c) Heptadactyly and hexadactj^y, which probably may
have occurred in the earliest Tetrapoda, cannot be
regarded at present as more than philosophical
speculations ; pentadactyly appears to be firmly
established throughout the kno\Mi Tetrapoda, both
living and extinct.
(a) The prepollex and prehallux are regarded by the
authors as representing the missing first meta-
carpal and metatarsal respectively.
" ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.
In conclusion, we desire to exj)ress our indebtedness to
Professor R. Berry, University of Melbourne, for his
sympathetic interest and advice ; also to Mr. H. A. Longman,
F.L.S., Director of the Queensland Museum, for the use of
valuable material ; and to Mr. W. M. Tanner, Brisbane, who
generously undertook the preparation of the X-ray photo-
graphs used in this investigation.
