40 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
Less common, or more local, are A. pugioniformis Wendl.,
A. hisjndula Willd., A. amoena Wendl., A. adunca A. Cunn.,
A. podalyricefoUa A. Cunn., A. elongata Sieb., &c., &c. The
anatomical details, given in this paper, are restricted to Nos.
2, 5, 6, 7, 10, 12, 13, and 14.
3.— GENERAL NOTES.
I. — Acacia amblygona A. Cunn. is found in undulating
country, and on the foothills of ranges, both in coastal and
inland districts. Near Brisbane its height is seldom more
than 3 or 4 feet. Its branches are terete and pubescent, and
the phyllodes are 3-4 lines by 1^ to 3 lines and almost tri-
angular. The pods are linear, somewhat curved, and l|-2 lines
broad. They are shghtly contracted between the seeds. It
is figured in Mueller's Australian Acacias, decade 7, plate 3.
It has been reported from Eidsvold, Miles, and Cliinchilla.
II. — Acacia aulacocarpa A. Cunn. is known in South-eastern
Queensland as the hickory wattle, as its young stems were
formerly used as handles for the whips of bullock-drivers. It
is found along the eastern coast of Queensland from the Tweed
River to Bowen and Lizard Island,^ and inland through the
Suttor Desert^ to tropical AVest Australia.^ Its phyllodes are
similar in general appearance to those of A. cunninghamii
Hook., from wliich they can be distinguished, under the lens,
by their freedom from anastomoses in the veins, and by their
faintly glaucous surface. The pods are 2-3| inches long and
f inch broad, the outer surface marked by oblique furrows,
from which the specific name is derived. Acacia aulacocarpa
grows in communities, forming wattle scrubs, and reaches in
S. E. Queensland a height of 20 to 30 feet. It is figured in
Mueller's Aust. Ac, dec. 9, pi. 9 ; and in Maiden's Forest
Flora, vol. 3, pi. 103.
III. — Acacia cincinnata F.v.M.* In the Flora Australiensis
this wattle was reported as from '" Rockingham Bay and
several other locahties in tropical Queensland," a statement
repeated in Bailey's Queensland Flora, vol. ii, p. 513. Unfor-
tunately Bailey seldom added to the localities given in the
Flora. "^Cambage (Proc. Roy. Soc. N.S.W., vol. 49, p. 396)
^ Maiden, Tropical Acacias of Queensland, p. 45.
^ Maiden, Flora of Northern Territory, p. 327.
^ Maiden, Notes on Tropical West Australian Acacias, p. 111.
* White, Queensland Naturalist, April 1917, p. 65.
