ACACIAS OP SOUTH-EAST QUEENSLAND. 43
than usual, ranging from 30-57 /x, in diameter ; in all other
wattle stems sectioned, the vessels reach usually t^vdce these
dimensions. The sieve tubes show the same peculiarity, being
decidedly narrow in transverse section. The. stem is
strengthened by old strands of hard bast, pushed out towards
the circumference, to form sclerench3rmatous strengthening
bands, like the steel laths of reinforced concrete. The phello-
derm takes the methylene blue stain very deeply, as does the
live cork ; betAveen the two is seen the almost unstained
phellogen, some of the cells undergoing mitotic division.
In the tangential longitudinal section the same structures
are seen, small reticulated vessels and tracheides prevailing
throughout a great portion of the X3"lem, A\*ith larger dotted
vessels in the sap wood.
II. — Acacia fimbriafa A. Cumi. and ^4. linifolia Willd.
(Plate IV.) No support is given to a separation of these two
wattles by a study of their internal structure. The supply
and arrangement of the t^essels of the xjdem agree in both forms;
the medullary rays are similarly strongly marked, the pith
is larger in area, relative to the wood, than in many aUied species,
and in tangential section the medullary rays show both in
xylem and phloem a single row of elongated oval cells. In
the deeper layers of the cortex, strands of sclerenchyma are
noted, the cavities of the cells almost obliterated by the
addition of layers to the cell- walls. Occasionally these strands
invade the outer layers of the alburnum. The larger vessels
and tracheides are pitted ones ; reticulated vessels are far
less numerous than in A. amhlygona.
In the medullary rays, when passing through the phloem,
the cells are shortest in the direction of the ray, the transverse
diameter being much enlarged.
III. — Acacia aulacocarpa A. Cunn.. A. cincinnafa F.v.M.,
and A. cunninghamii Hook. (Plate III.) These all belong to
Juliflorae, and the first and third species have many features
in common. In the transverse section of a young twig, the
triangular outline at once distinguishes A. cunninghamii, but
this means of identification is lost in older branches. Vessels
of the xylem of A. cunninghamii range from 70 /it to 140 /m and
are the broadest of any acacia examined ; in A. aulacocarpa
they vary from 30 jn to 105 /x ; and in ^4. cincintiata have about
the same limits. In the first year's stem of cunninghamii,
