44 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
triangular in outline, the epidermis is well shown, the outer
walls so strengthened with cutin as to form half the radial
diameter of each cell. A circle of sclerenchyma lies between
the phelloderm and the phloem, lying in a series of curves round
the vascular bundles, with larger thick- walled cells where two
curves meet, some of which have the diameter of vessels. In
older sections of 4-5 years, the vessels have their greatest dia-
meter parallel to the circumference, and the lines of wood-cells
are nmch distorted around vessels and near the outer portions
of the xylem. The pith-cells are full of starch grains, and a
few contain tabulate crystals. In tangential longitudinal
section both aulacocarpd and cunninghamii show the cells of
the medullary rays in uniseriate arrangement ; in the former
the ray sections are 210-225 /x by 9-12 /x ; in the latter
110-210 ju. by 10 /x. A. cinci7inafa shows alternating layers of
hard and soft bast in the phloem, but otherwise its histology
is that already described for aulacocarpa.
In cunninghamii the joith cells are large, filled with starch,
often elongated in a radial direction and bounded by a wavy
outline of pro to xylem. The primary medullary rays are
strongly marked, and are formed of cells of considerable
radial diameter.
Neither endodermis nor pericycle is clearly shown in
any member of this group.
IV. — Acacia penninervis Sieb., in transverse section, is re-
markable for the numerous broken concentric rings of
sclerenchyma or hard bast in the phloem, and for the thickness
of the bast layer. The vessels vary in diameter from 43 [m to
105 fx. The wood-cells produced in autumn have their walls
much thickened, and each annual zone is thus made to add to
the strength and elasticity of the stem. Dotted tracheides are
more than usually numerous.
Passing through the phloem, the cells of the medullary
rays remain uniseriate, but acquire a greater transverse
diameter, and are plainly seen in the more internal masses
of sclerenchyma. In tangential section they measure 103-220 [jl
by 6-17 [X. In the phelloderm, at intervals, the large cells are
seen to be placed with the long axis directed radially ; in
other parts of the inner cortex the longitudinal axis of each cell
of this inner layer is vertical. These cells retain their proto-
plasm, and have a rather narrowly elliptical nucleus. (Plate
VI.)
