SARCOPHAGID FLIES FROM SOUTH-EASTERN QUEENSLAND. 47
for certain identifications referred to later on. Dr. Aldrich
also kindly allowed us to make use of the card catalogue of those
recorded from Austraha, the catalogue being the work of Dr.
C. H. Townsend.
The first a-utlior to deal with any Australian Sarcophagidse
was Robineau-Desvoidy, who in 1830 pubhshed descriptions
of five species from Sydney, viz., (I) S. depressa, (2) S. peregrina,
(o) S. siibrotunda, (4) S. raplda, and (5) S. musca, all under the
generic name Myophora. We have not been able to consult
Ms '■ Essai," but, thanks to Mr. W. A. Rainbow, Australian
Museum, Sydney, we have seen figures of S. rmisca pubhshed
by Guerin-^Ieneville, whose specimens canife from New Guinea.
The text relating to the work (Zoology, Voyage of the
■' Coquille") was not available, but Figure 4 suggests a Sarco-
phaga ; the drawing of a front view of the head and face,
however, shows marked differences from the Sarcophaga ^ype,
e.g. the sketch shows the presence of a fully plumose arista,
prominent first antennal joint, an atypical number and arrange-
ment of the bristles. If the figure be incorrectly drawn, then
it is possible that *S'. musca may be that described later by
Walker as S. irrequieta, since small underfed specimens of the
latter commonly resemble llusca domestica at first sight in
regard to size and colouration. In all probabiHty the remaining
four, if recognisable, will be found to be common forms in
the vicinity of Sydney {S. misera being one for example), and
some of the species described in this paper may be synonyms.
A little later Macquart (1846, 1855) described three from
the east coast of Australia, viz., (6) S. aurifrons, (7) S. flavi-
femorafa, and (8) S. ruficornis. The last-mentioned specific
name is not available, having been preoccupied by S. ruficornis
(Fabr.) from East India. No. 7 we do not laiow. .S'. aurifrons
is the name given in Australia to a certain type of blowfly,
but as a result of our observations we find that probably ten
or twelve Brisbane species could be included under the descrip-
tion. As we have not access to Macquart's type, we have
fixed his name on a particular sj)ecies based on specimens
collected in Brisbane by Mr. Froggatt many years ago and
forwarded to Washington D.C. for determination by Coquillet,
who labelled some as S. aurifrons Macq. and others as S.
frontalis Thoms. Through the kindness of JMr. Froggatt we
have been able to examine the determined specimens.
