SARCOPHAGID FLIES FROM SOUTH-EASTERN QUEENSLAND. 49
The last Australian Sarcophaga to be described was
<18) *S'. froggafti Taylor, 1917. Thanks to Mr. G. F. Hill, of
the Australian Tropical Institute, we have been able to give
an account of this fly.
Thus, of the eighteen species recorded to date, no less than
eleven (including one with a preoccupied name) are still imper-
fectly known, many of them being quite unrecognisable from the
scanty descriptions. Five are fully described (both sexes) in
our paper, and two have been reduced to synonyms. To the
list we add fifteen new and one previovisly known species,
giving a description of both sexes in the case of eight new
ones, and of the male only in the remaining seven.
We have compared our specimens with the accounts of
various Sarco])hagas from New Guinea, Southern Asia, the
East Indies, and the Pacific Islands, as given by Walker
(1856-1865), Macquart, Thomson, and Parker. Unfortunately
many of the descriptions published by Macquart and Walker
are so general or so scanty as ;to be of very little value for
comparative purposes. The following species, however, may
be definitely excluded from synonymy with the species referred
to in this paper : — S. ruficornis Fabr. (India and Philippines) ;
S. orienialis Parker, ^S*. crinifa Parker, S. harpax Pand. (all
from Philippines) ; S. j^c-rpusilla Walker (New Guinea) ; S.
rohusta Aldrich, S. hcemorrhoidalis Fallen, S. barbata Thomson,
S. paUinervis Thomson (all from Hawaii) ; and the following
described by Walker from the East Indies : S. aliena,
8. indicata, S. invaria, 8. mendax, 8. inextricata, and 8. brevis.
Acknowledgments are gratefully made to Dr. Aldrich
(U.S. National Museum), Major E. Austen (British Museum),
Messrs. W. W. Froggatt (Government Entomologist, Sydney),
H. Tryon (-Government Entomologist, Brisbane), and G. F.
Hill (Tropical Institute, Townsville, N.Q.), as well as Dr.
T. L. and Miss M. J. Bancroft (Eidsvold, Q.), for assistance
in regard to material ; also Messrs. H. A. Longm.an, Director
of the Queensland Museum, and W. A. Rainbow and A. Mus-
grave, of the Australian Museum, Sydney, for assistance in
regard to literature.
Types, both holotypes and allotypes, will be deposited in
the Queensland Museum, Brisbane. Paratypes will, if sufficient
be available, be distributed to other museums such as the Aus-
tralian Museum, Sydney, British Museum, and U.S. National
Museum.
E
