50 PROCEEDINGS CE THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
Although twenty-one species are described in this paper,
all but one {Hdicobia ausfraUs) fall within the limits of the
genus Sarcophaga as ordinarily accepted. One species, S. {Para-
sarcojihaga) omega, probably represents a new generic type
but we have contented ourselves with the erection of a subgenus.
Of the remaining nineteen species, the first four described — -
♦S*. impatiens, S. tryoni, S. alpha, and >S^. beta — are very large
flies with bright golden colouration on the head and thorax.
The females, as far as known, possess scutellar apical bristles.
Probably *S'. gamma belongs to this group but it is more greyish
in general appearance. S. delta constitutes a group by itself ;
S. irrequieta and *S'. eta another small group of medium-sized
greyish flies ; S. misera and S. dux a fourth group. All the
others, excepting perhaps S. bancrofti, are very similar in
size and general colouration and constitute an aurifrons group.
We have not attempted to describe any species of which
only the female is represented in our collection.
1. Helicobia australis n. sp. (Fig. 24).
In general appearance a small rather slender grey fly, 5 mm.
in length and only about 1-2 mm. in breadth.
Male. — Head. — Front fairly prominent ; at its narrowest
about half the width of eye. Fyes red- brown. Parafrontals,
cheeks, and back of head silvery, ferruginous in certain lights.
Frontal stripe very dark chocolate, a little wider than para-
frontals ; mesofacial plates a pale fawn colour. First antenna!
joint inconspicuous ; second large, very dark brown and with
a silv^ery bloom ; third less than twice the length of second,
silvery. A row of eight frontals beside frontal stripe. Pro-
boscis dark brown external! v, much paler on internal (anterior)
part ; palps black ; vibrissa inserted close to oral margin ;
four facials and three peristomials present. Verticals large,
lateral verticals absent. Two rows of black bristles behind
eyes, upper row the more complete. .Silvery hairs clothe the
back of the head, becoming longer but more sparse below ;
cheeks with black bristles.
Thorax as wide as head, and of a silvery gre}^ colour. The
usual three longitudinal lines are present, but are rather
irregular and all extend on to scutellum, where the lateral
ones are only faintly indicated. Thorax deep grey laterally
and ventrally. Anterior spiracle very small, clothed with
brown hairs.
