52 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
The last two pairs of anterior acrostichals feebly developed ;
prescutellar acrostichals moderately strong. Apical scutellars
present. Dorsocentrals remarkably well developed ; the last
two pairs as usual much the largest, the more anterior ones
considerably larger than the prescutellar acrostichals. Two
intra-alars present ; three humerals ; two post-humerals, of
which the anterior is the larger.
Wings. — In the wing the first longitudinal vein is hairy,
thus placing the species in the genus Helicobia.
Legs black ; first femur not hairy, tibia shorter than
tarsus ; second and tliird legs not hairy, second femur without
" comb," tarsus longer than tibia ; third tibia about as long
as tarsus.
Abdomen about as long as thorax, oval ; covered with
short recHnate bristles above, slightly hairy below ; provided
postero-ventrally with a few rather long bristles. First segment
of hypopygium greyish ; second segment very dark shiny
brown, hairy, tipped dorsally with light brown. Forceps
relatively very large, shiny black, sharply pointed, and exceed-
ingly hairy. Accessory plate somewhat semicircular, hairy.
Penis fairly heavily chitinised, bearing posteriorly two long,
prominent, ventrally directed processes, as figured (Fig. 24).
Described from two males, bred from decaying meat in
Brisbane. H. australis is the first representative of the genus
to be recorded from Australasia.
2. Sarcophaga impatiens Walker 1849 (Figs. 18, 19).
In general appearance a large golden and black fly, the
male measuring about 14 mm. ; the female somewhat shorter,
about 12 mm. long, and much more thick-set.
Male. — Head. — A little narrower than Avidest part of
thorax. Front not very prominent ; about three- fifths the
width of eyes. Frontal stripe very dark chocolate brown.
Mesofacial plates a rich golden colour, borders tinged with
black. Parafrontals golden, with dark reflections ; cheeks
bright golden. Eyes red-brown. Proboscis black and brown,
with golden hairs ; palps black. Back of head golden, with a
single row of short black bristles behind eyes. Hairs below
these golden, becoming very long and bright golden on cheeks.
First antennal joint very small ; second large and very
dark brown, third over thrice the length of second, dark
