SARCOPHAGID FLIES FROM SOUTH-EASTERN QUEENSLAND. 53
ferruginous. The second joint bears a prominent bristle.
A row of thirteen frontal bristles present. Vibrissae inserted
well above oral margin. Seven facial and five long peri-
stomial bristles present. Lateral verticals inconspicuous.
Thorax golden, with the usual three longitudinal stripes,
the middle one alone extending on to scutellum. Sides and
ventral surface of thorax golden. Anterior acrostichals present,
but very feebly developed. Of the posterior acrostichals only
the prescutellar represented ; these are moderately strong.
Row of dorsocentrals complete ; last in row very large. Scutel-
lar apicals present. Anterior intra-alar bristle about as large
as prescutellar acrostichal. Humeral bristle large but not
extending beyond pronotum. Anterior spiracle dark chocolate
coloured, protected by a heavy growth of short golden hairs.
Legs black and grey. First femur tinged with gold ;
hairy. Second femur hairy, but not heavily so ; last tibia
hairv. Pulvilli dark brown, fringed with silvery hairs.
Abdomen in male a little longer than thorax, conical ;
silvery with the usual black and silvery marldngs, and fre-
quently tinged with gold. Median dorsal black stripe not
extending on to last segment. Abdomen hairy beneath. First
segment of hypopygium brown, anterior portion almost
grejdsh ; second, dark shining brown, almost black, the
whole provided with long curly black hairs. Forceps angular
and fairly sharp-pointed, the upper half provided with a
number of short anteriorly directed bristles, and with long black
hairs. Accessory plates dark brown, hairy. Claspers dark
brown, almost black ; the anterior pair especially strong, due
to a great thickening of the lower tw^o-thirds. First joint of
penis dark brown ; second dark brown, black in parts, bordered
with white antero-ventrally, and provided mth hooks and
chitinous processes, as figured (Fig. 19).
Female. — This differs from the male in the following im-
portant characters : — Front slightly more prominent than in
male ; about five-sixths the width of eyes. Eleven frontal
bristles beside the frontal stripe, and three beside eye ; these
latter extremely large, even more so than in »S^. tri/oni ; practi-
cally only in this respect can the two females b? distinguished.
Lateral verticals very large. Scutellar apical bristles present,
but small and fairly close together. First femur clothed with
short hairs ventrally ; longitudinal row of bristles very well
