54 PKOCEEDIXGS CF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF QTEENSLAND.
developed. Second femur hairless ; a " comb" not differ-
entiated. Neither last femur nor tibia hair^^ Abdomen oval,
shorter and broader than thorax.
Bred from bad meat. This species is very common
around Brisbane, especially during early autumn.
A female was kindly identified for us by Mr. E. E. Austen
of the British Museum, by comparison with Walker's type
(a female) in that collection, described from New Holland.
A comparison of our bred females with this form allowed us
to determine the hitherto undescribed male. Walker's type
is labelled as having come from Sydney. Others in the British
Museum have been collected in Tasmania, South Queensland,
North Queensland (Stannary Hills, Coll. Dr. Bancroft), and
New Hebrides ; all determined by Mr. Austen.
3. Sarcophaga tryoni n. sp. (Figs. 9, 10).
Syn. : S. frontalis (in part) of Australian authors.
In general appearance bright gold and black. A large
Sarcophaga, the males measuring about 17 mm. in length,
though some may be as small as 11 mm. Female considerably
shorter, measuring about 12 or 13 mm.
Male. — Head. — Parafrontals bright gold, with dark reflec-
tions. Back of head and cheeks bright gold. Width of front
about half that of eyes. Frontal stripe black, about as wide
as parafrontals. Mesofacial plate very pale golden, borders
tinged Avith black. First antennal joint very small, dark
brown ; second much larger, almost black ; third joint nearly
four times the length of second, ferruginous. A row of eleven
frontal bristles present. Verticals large, lateral verticals
very small. Epistome prominent, tinged with pink ; proboscis
black, with golden hairs. Vibrissa? large. About seven small
facial bristles present ; twelve peristomials. One row of
black bristles behind eyes ; back of head provided Avith short
golden hairs, forming a beard-like growth on cheeks.
Thorax varying from bright gold to almost ashy colour,
and with the usual three black longitudinal stripes, the middle
one alone extending on to scutellum. Sides of thorax grey,
tinged with gold. Anterior spiracle with a strong growth of
short golden and silvery hairs.
