SARCOPHAGID PLIES FROM SOUTH-EASTERN QUEENSLAND. 77
inconspicuous ; second much larger, nearly black ; third
ferruginous, with silvery bloom, and thrice the length of
second. A row of fourteen frontal bristles present ; seven
facials ; nine epistomials. Proboscis black, with golden
hairs ; palps almost black. A single row of black bristles
behind eyes ; hairs on back of head golden ; hairs on genae
pale gold, and moderately long. Verticals present, but not
very large ; lateral verticals absent.
Thorax pale golden, with three longitudinal black stripes
of which the middle one extends as a faint indication on the
scutellum. Scutellum distinctly grey. Sides of thorax pale
gold and silvery ; ventral side grey. Last pair of anterior
acrostichals present ; prescutellar acrostichals well developed.
Dorsocentral row complete, the last two larger than others ;
three humerals well developed, the lowest not extending to
mesonotum. Anterior intra-alar slightly larger than usual.
Scutellar apicals well developed.
Legs black and grey. First femur golden on ventral side ;
longitudinal row of bristles complete ; femur moderately
hairy. Second femur with a well-developed " comb," only
very slightly hairy ; second tibia not hairy. Third femur only
faintly golden on under side, and lightly clothed with short
hairs.
Abdomen silvery and black, as usual ; very hairy on
ventral surface. Hypopygium very dark brown almost black,
less hairy than usual. Forceps, when viewed externally, shiny
black, slightly sculptured and angular, but when viewed inter-
nally they appear dark brown. They are closely approximated
for over half their length, but no connecting membrane is
developed. At the angle are about ten short, stout, black
bristles. The upper portion is hairy. Accessory plates brown
and provided with only short hairs. Claspers brown at base,
shiny black towards tips. Posterior clasper long and blunt ;
the anterior bifurcate. The connecting membrane immediately
surrounding the penis develops a small " clasper-like" process
antero-ventrally. First joint of penis dark brown ; the second
joint considerably simpler in structure than in the other forms
examined by us, almost black in colour, and provided distally
with a pair of medium-sized recurved hooks (Fig. 20).
Described from one male captured on bad meat in
Brisbane.
