78 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
15. Sarcophaga theta n. sp. (Fig. 5).
General appearance very like S. aurifron."!. Length 9 to
12 mm.
Male. — Head. — Front fairly prominent, about half the
Avidth of eye. Frontal stripe nearly black, a little mcler than
parafrontals. Parafrontals, gense, and back of head bright
golden ; mesofacial plates silvery with golden tinge and darker
borders. Epistome fairly prominent, tinged with pink. First
antennal segment very small ; second shorter than usual and
nearly black ; third well over thrice the length of second, and
of a very dark brown colour. Eyes red-brown. Proboscis
and palps as usual. Eleven frontals beside frontal stripe ;
vibrissse rather shorter than usual. Five facials, seven peri-
stomials. Verticals present, lateral verticals absent. A single
row of short black bristles behind eyes ; back of head clothed
with short pale-golden hairs, developing into a beard-like growth
on the lower part of the genes, but rather sparse and short
on the anterior portion of the latter.
Thorax a pale-golden colour, with the usual three longi-
tudinal black stripes, the middle one plainly visible on the
scutellum, the lateral two only very faintly so. Sides of
thorax golden ; under side grey. Anterior spiracle provided
with yellow hairs.
Of the anterior acrostichals only the posterior pair present,
though but very weak ; posterior acrostichals entirely absent.
Dorsocentral row complete, the lastj'pair extending Just to
the tip of scutellum. Two intra-alars, also apical scutellars,
present.
Legs black and grey. First femur golden below and
lightly hairy proximo-ventrally ; tibia longer|^than tarsus.
Second femur not hairy ; a " combj" not definitely differ-
entiated ; tibia hairless. Third femur^hairless, tibia strongly
hairy.
Abdomen with the usual black and grey7mar kings. The
median longitudinal black row prominent anteriorly ; extending
only faintly on to the last segment. Abdomen with short
black reclinate bristles above, hairy beneath. First segment
of hypopygium silvery poUinose ; second nearly black, shiny
and very hairy. Forceps shiny black, a littleXsculptured,
approximated posteriorly for about three-fifths their lengtli ;
straight almost to the tips which are fairly sharply bent.
