SARCOPHAGID FLIES FROM SOUTH-EASTERN QUEENSLAND. 79
pointed and bare ; the remainder strongly hairy. Accessory
plates very large, dark brown and hairy. Claspers shiny
black. First segment of penis brown ; second more heavily
chitinised, black, in parts brown, the outer portions yellowish
or whitish. It is a relatively simple organ with a pair of short
forwardly directed ventral processes, and a large irregular
chitinous mass above and anterior to these (Fig. 5).
Female. — This differs from the male in the following
characters : — Front about as wide as eyes. Lateral verticals
well developed. A row of eight frontals beside frontal stripe,
and three larger ones beside eye. Scutellum slightly more
abbreviated than in male. Thoracic chsetotaxy as in male,
except that the apical scutellars are absent. Thorax mode-
rately hairy beneath. First leg not hairy ; the second femur
is remarkable in that it has a well-developed " comb'* of
eight bristles, such a structure being here confined to the
female, whereas normally it occurs only in the male. Third
tibia not hairy. Abdomen a little more rounded than in male.
Dorsal longitudinal line extends definitely on to last segment.
Described from a number of males and females bred from
decaying meat in Brisbane in September 1920.
16. Sarcophaga iota n. sp. (Fig. 11).
In general appearance a medium-sized greyish -gold flv ;
length of the male about 12 mm., while the female is usually
from 9 to 10 mm.
Male. — Head. — Front prominent ; over half the eye- width.
Frontal striiae nearly black, and slightly less than width of
parafrontals. Parafrontals golden, almost brassy in colour ;
gense approximately the same colour as parafrontals. Meso-
facial plate silvery, with dark borders. First antennal joint
inconspicuous ; second moderately large, black ; third black,
and about four times the length of second. Back of head
golden. Proboscis dark brown, almost black, and provided
with long dark-brown hairs ; palps very dark brown ; epistome
very faintly pink, not prominent. A single row of black
bristles behind eyes ; hairs below these golden, short, develop-
ing into a beard-like growth ventrally ; anterior part of genae
with shorter golden hairs. Verticals present ; lateral verticals
absent. A row of frontals beside frontal stripe. Vibrissae not
very large.
