80 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
Thorax greyish gold, with the usual black longitudinal
stripes, the middle one alone extending on to scutellum ; sides
of thorax grey and gold ; ventral side grey. Anterior spiracle
dark chocolate brown, provided with brown hairs. Of the
anterior acrostichals only the last two pairs are present ; of
the posterior, only the prescutellar,* which are very strong,
reaching nearly to the tip of scutellum. Apical scutellars
present. Three intra-alar bristles present. Posterior pair of
dorsocentrals reach far beyond scutellum.
Legs black and grey. First femur golden below, clothed
with short hairs, tibia a little longer than tarsus. Second
femur not hairy ; a " comb " differentiated ; tibia a little
longer than tarsus. Third femur lightly hairy ; tibia longer
than tarsus and not markedly hairy.
Abdomen with the usual black and white markings ; with
short reclinate bristles dorsally, and a long beard-like growth
of hairs ventrally. In the hypopygium the first segment is
silvery pollinose, the second almost black and provided with
long hairs. Forceps approximated for about two-thirds their
length ; angular in side view, ending in a sharp point ; tip black
and bare ; upper portion slightly hairy, and dark shiny brown.
Accessory plate brown, rounded, and moderately hairy.
Claspers very dark brown. First joint of penis brown;
second more heavily chitinised, black and dark brown, pro-
vided ventrally with a pair of hook-shaped, foliaceous pro-
^cesses, tipped ventrally with white (Fig. 11).
Female. — This differs from the male in the following
cliaracters.: — It is shorter than the male, measuring about
9 to 10 mm. ; one female reached only 7 mm. Front as wide
as eyes. Lateral verticals very well developed. A row of
seven frontal bristles beside the frontal stripe, and three
large bristles beside eye. Scutellum much abbreviated, almost
flat, whereas in the male it is strongly convex. Thoracic
chffitotaxy as in male ; i.e. two anterior acrostichals, three
intra-alars, but no apical scutellars. Tibiae and femora all
hairless. No " comb " on second femur. Abdomen very
rounded ; hairy, but not markedly so beaneath ; median
dorsal black line extends on to last segment.
Bred from decomposing meat in Brisbane, October 1920.
