SARCOPHAGID FLIES FROM SOUTH-EASTERN QUEENSLAND. 81
17. Sarcophaga kappa n. sp. (Fig. 7).
General appearance like *S^. aurifrons Mcq.. Length 12 mm.
Male. — Head. — Front not prominent ; about two-fifths
the width of eye. Eyes dark red-brown ; frontal strip3 very
dark chocolate brown, and slightly broader than paraf rentals
at their narrowest. Parafrontals, genee, and back of head golden,
the latter very faintly tinged with dark. Ganae distinctly
paler than parafrontals. Proboscis nearly black with brown
hairs ; palps very dark brown. Mesofacial plates faintly
golden, more greyish at sides ; epistome pinkish, not very
prominent. First antennal joint inconspicuous ; second
black, tinged with silver, and a little smaller than usual ;
third joint rather over four times the length of second, and of
a beautiful fawn colour. A row of twelve frontal bristles
present. Verticals large ; lateral verticals absent. Seven
facials and eleven peristomials. A single row of black cilia
behind eyes ; hairs below thesa short and golden, developed
into a beard-like growth below ; hairs on anterior part of
cheek shorter and golden.
TJiorax pale golden, with the usual three regular longi-
tudinal black stripes, the middle one extending on to the
scutellum, the laterals represented each by a pale-brown
discolouration. Sides golden ; ventral portion grey. Of the
anterior acrostichals only the posterior pair is developed ; of
the posterior set only the prescutellars, and these are con-
siderably weaker than the anterior intra- alar. Scutellar
apicals present ; also three humerals, the lowest not reaching
to the mesonotum. Dorsocentral row normal, the last pair
(prescutellar) reaching just beyond scutellum.
Legj black, femora tinged with grey. First femur hairy,
tibia slightly longer than tarsus. Second femur hairy proximo-
ventrally, a " comb " developed distally ; tibia longer than
tarsus and not hairy. Posterior femur and tibia hairy.
Abdomen as long as thorax, conical, with the usual black
and white markings, the median black line extending on to
last segment ; hairy below. First genital segment grey and
polHnose ; second dark brown, almost black, hairy. Accessory
plates dark brown with long hairs. Forceps shiny black,
curved ; tips bare, remainder hairy, especially proximally.
Claspers very dark brown, and articulating with one another
basally. First joint of penis dark brown ; the greater part
G
