82 PROCEEDINGS CF THE. ROYAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
of the second black, with parts a lighter brown and parts
whitish. From the ventral side are given off a number of
irregularly shaped, somewhat foliaceous processes fringed
with short whitish hairs. The penis is provided laterally
with two strong black hooks, closely resembhng claspers
(Fig- n
Female. — This differs from the male in the following im-
portant characters : — Front about four fifths the width of eyes ;
parafrontals nearly twice the width of frontal stripe. Lateral
verticals very well developed. Nine frontal bristles beside
the frontal stripe ; three which are much larger beside the eye.
Thoracic chsetotaxy as in male, except that the prescutellar
acro&tichals are slightly larger in the female, and the scutellar
apicals absent. First femur not hairy. Second and third
tarsi and tibiae without hair. Abdomen more rounded than in
male, and with the usual markings, the median black line
extending on to the last segment.
Described from several males and females bred from bad
meat in Brisbane.
18. Sarcophaga omikron n. sp. (Fig. 16).
General appearance closely resembhng S. aurifrons.
Length 10 to 12 mm.
Male. — Head. — Front moderately prominent, a little less
than half the width of eye ; eyes brown. Frontal stripe black,
a little narrower than parafrontals. Parafrontals, gense, and
occiput bright golden ; mesofacial plates silvery, faintly
tinged mth gold. Epistome inconspicuous ; first antennal
joint invisible ; second large, black, coated with silvery hairs ;
third joint silvery, about thrice the length of second. Arista
shorter than usual, measuring only about six-fifths the length
of the antennal joints combined. A row of twelve frontals
beside frontal stripe ; at the upper end of this row, below the
ocelU, are five other bristles, one outside the row, the others
internal to it. Vibrissa inserted fairly close to oral margin.
About twelve facials and eight peristomials present. Verticals
not very strongly developed ; a single row of short black
bribtles behind eyes ; occiput covered by short golden hairs
which become longer below on the genae, but shorter again
more anteriorly.
Thorax rather bright golden, with the longitudinal jet-black
stripes much darker than usual ; the middle one alone has a
