SARCOPHAGID FLIES FROM SOUTH-EASTERN QUEENSLAND. 83
very prominent extension on to the scutellum. Sides grey and
gold ; ventral side grey ; both provided with patches of long
golden hairs. Shoulders \vith. short black bristles and long
golden hairs. Anterior spiracle dark chocolate., and provided
with a heavy coat of short brown hairs.
Of the anterior acrostichals, only the posterior pair present,
rather long but slender ; of the posterior set, only the pre-
scutellars. Scutellar apicals present ; dorsocentral row com-
plete, the last pair xery long., the second shorter, but much
stronger than those anterior to them. Two intra-alars.
Legs grey and black. The first femur bright golden
beneath, and clothed with short hairs ; longitudinal rows of
bristles very complete. Second femur hairy proximo-ventrally ;
distally a " comb " is differentiated ; tibia hairless, and
considerably longer than tarsus. Third femur heavily clad
with short hairs ; di!?tal two-tliirds of tibia very hairy ; distal
third free ; tibia longer than tarsus.
Abdomen about as long as thorax ; conical, with the usual
black and white markings ; the dorsal longitudinal black line
extends faintly on to last segment. Covered dorsally with
short black reclinate bristles ; hair}^ beneath. Hypopygium
visible dorsally ; first segment silvery polHnose, second shiny
black and hairy. Forceps shiny black, curved, sharply pointed ;
tips bare, rest hairy. Accessory plates brown, hairy. Claspers
simple ; shiny black. The penis is a very stout organ, brown
in colour, slightly poUinose, and developed distally into a
short stout hook, as figured (Fig. 16).
Female. — This differs from the male in the following
characters : — Frontal stripe about four- fifths the width of
eye. A row of nine frontal bristles beside frontal stripe, a
second row of three large bristles immediately beside the eye.
Lateral verticals prominent. Thoracic chaetotaxy as in male,
except that the scutellar apicals are absent. Scutellum con-
siderably more rounded than in male. First femur only
slightly golden, not hairy ; tibia about as long as tarsus.
Second and third tibise and femora hairless ; no " comb" on
second femur. Abdomen rounded, much shorter than thorax ;
covered dorsall}^ \\'ith short reclinate bristles ; longitudinal
black line faintly visible on last segment. Ventral side scarcely
hairy.
Described from specimens bred from wool by ]Mr. Henry
