84 PROCEEDINGS CF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND,
Tryon, Queensland Government Entomologist, as well as one
bred by Miss M. J. Bancroft from rotten potato in Eidsvold
in March 1920.
19. Sarcophaga sigma n. sp. (Fig. 17).
General appearance closely resembling S. aurifrons.
Male. — Head. — Eyes dark red-brown, and very flat in
front, giving the front a very prominent appearance. Para-
frontals gold with dark reflections. Pront half as wide as
eyes ; frontal stripe nearly black, a little wider than para-
frontals. Gense golden with a rather brassy tint. Occiput
golden. Mesofacials silvery ; epistome fairly prominent.
First antennal segment not very conspicuous ; second large,
nearly black ; third about twice length of second, nearly
black. A row of twelve frontals beside frontal stripe. Verticals
present ; lateral verticals rather well developed. Eight
peristomials and seven facials present. Three rows of short
black bristles behind eyes ; the first row much more regular
and complete than the others. Hairs below these short and
silvery, developing into a beard-like growth below. Anterior
part of genae with black bristles.
Thorax golden grey with the usual black longitudinal
stripes, only the middle one extending prominently on to the
scutellum. Sides grey, tinged with golden, under side grey ;
anterior spiracle with brown hairs. Of the acrostichals only
the prescutellar pair present, though very weakly developed ;
three intra- alars ; dorsocentral row complete ; apical scutellars
present ; lowest humeral very large, extending just* on to the
mesonotum .
Legs black and grey. First femur tinged with gold
ventrally, not hairy ; tibia longer than tarsus. Second femur
with a " comb," hairy proximo-ventrally. Third femur only
slightly hairy ; tibia not hairy.
Abdomen conical, shorter than thorax, with the usual
black and white markings. Dorsal median line wide, but
irregular, not extending on to last segment. Covered dorsally
with short black reclinate bristles ; hairy ventrally. Last
segment of hypopygium shiny black, hairy ; forceps fairly
straight, bare at tips, hairy above. Accessory plate dark brown,
hairy. Claspers dark shiny black. The penis is a heavily
cliitinised structure ; the last segment nearly black, and
divided distally into two parts, as figured (Fig. 17). The
