SARCOPHAGID FLIES FROM SOUTH-EASTERN QUEENSLAND. 87
cences, which protrude well in front of the antennae, surround
the mesofacial plate, and gradually die out at the oral margin.
Front slightly under three-fifths the width of eye ; gense,
metacephalon, and parafrontals brightly golden pollinose.
First antennal joint concealed ; second rather large, pitchy
black, slightly punctate, with a few small bristles ; third joint
black, with a very faint silvery bloom, and about two and a
half times the length of second. Mesofacial plate golden,
with darker borders. Cheek height about two -fifths that of eye.
Eye rather small, dark red-brown. A single row of ten rather
small frontal bristles present ; verticals large ; lateral verticals
absent. A single row of black bristles behind eyes ; meta-
cephalon covered with short pale-golden hairs, growing much
longer below on the genae ; anterior part of gense lightly
clothed with pale-golden hairs. Proboscis and palps as usual.
Thorax at its broadest about the width of the head ; colour
rather ashy, faintly golden, with the usual three very dark
brown longitudinal stripes, the middle one alone extending
on to scutellum. Anterior spiracle large and clothed with
pale -golden hairs. Sides grey and golden ; -under side grey
and golden, the former predominating. Of the anterior
acrostichals only the posterior pair is well developed ; of the
posterior set, only the prescutellars are differentiated, being
rather large. Dorsocentral row normal ; apical scutellars well
developed ; two intra-alars present. Three humerals, the
lowest extending just beyond pronotum ; a single post-humeral.
Legs black and grey. First femur golden beneath ; longi-
tudinal rows of bristles complete ; femur only very slightly
hairy proximo-ventrally ; tibia not hairy. Second femur
clothed with short hairs proximo-ventrally ; a well-defined
" comb " present ; tibia longer than tarsus. Last femur
heavily clothed with short hairs ; distal two-thirds of tibia
hairy ; tibia longer than tarsus.
Abdomen conical and rather longer than thorax, with the
usual black and white markings, the longitudinal black line
not extending on to last segment. Upper surface with short
reclinate bristles ; lower surface moderately hairy.
First segment of hypopygium black, faintly golden
pollinose, hairy ; second segment rather small, shiny black,
very hairy. Forceps shiny black or very dark brown, faintly
sculptured, sharply pointed, hairy ; upper half approximated,
