02 PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROVAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
In a series of seven in the same buncii in the Queensland
Museum, much variation is to be noted. As may be seen from
the illustrations, the cocoons are more or less elongate-fusiform.
Saville Kent illustrated a similar cocoon (unnamed) in Chromo
Plate IX. •' The Naturalist in AustraUa," 1897.
The cocoons made by the specimen in my garden showed
variations ranging from 3 to 4 in. in length, the maximum
diameter being about an inch. In a cocoon 4 in. long, the
peduncle occupied about one quarter of the total length, and
the tail or terminal portion also about one quarter, this being
the most variable part.
The inner cocoon hangs centrally in the upper half of the
outer envelope, being elegantly pear-shaped, with the globular
end downwards. Between the two envelopes when the cocoon
is opened will be found a loose packing of deUcate silk, which
doubtless forms a valuable elastic medium, protecting the
inner cocoon with its precious freight of eggs. The texture
of the inner cocoon is similar to fine rice-paper, and it is much
wliiter in colour than the other. Within there is a quantity of
fine, loose silk surrounding the eggs. The contents of an
injured cocoon were counted, over 600 eggs being present.
Taking five cocoons as the average, each spider laj^s in a season
about 3,000 eggs.
Our spider made its home in a rose-bush. By binding a
number of leaves together it formed a large retreat or nest,
which it completely lined inside with, silk webbing. During
the daytime it was invariably to be discovered in this retreat
with its head turned away from the opening. An angle between
two branches formed an appropriate setting for the series of
cocoons to be spun. The shelter of the foliage was increased
by a small leafy branch, placed in position by my wiie, which
the si^ider promptly made use of the next night and secured
by silken strands. A fallen rose-petal was also worked by the
spinner into its bower.
Two cocoons were spun in the earlier months of the year,
Tjut no notes were then taken. Subsequently our interest was
so aroused that each night, so far as possible, the spider was
Avatched, for we were determined to seethe wondrous spinner at
work. With the third cocoon we were unlucky, for it was spun
during our absence on the night of 31st March, shortly after the
full moon.
