THE MAGNIFICEXT SPIDER : DICROSTICHLS MAGNIFICUS. 9;^
On the 7th April there was a domestic tragedy, for a large
immature Orthopteron, noted b}- !Mr. H. Hacker as belonging
to the family Gryllaci'idse (locally called " a cricket"), was
discovered eating the eggs from the third cocoon. It had toiTi
away both envelopes and had also broken the top part of the
second cocoon. The spider was hanging close by, apjjarently
quite unable to protect its eggs.
Ballooning. — On the 16th April, a fine moonlight night,
tiny spiderhngs (about 2 mm. in diameter) were found to be
emerging from the first cocoon through a hole in the upper
part which Avas just large enough to enable them to struggle
through. When they emerged they climbed to the top and on
to the surrounding leaves and roses. Spinning fine threads
which floated away on a gentle breeze, they were seen ballooning
through the air to start life on tiieir own account. Often the
tiny threads would get entangled and three or four spiderhngs
would form a httle constellation among the leaves. For the
next four days these small adventurers were still emerging,
mostly at night. Some were noticed to float up almost verti-
cally. Two or three were located on the upper branches of
shrubs on the other side of the garden, but all were eventually
lost sight of, probably being devoured by the omnivorous
sparrows. What number, if any, of these tiny aeronauts
survived, I dare not suggest. My observations on isolated
cocoons show that the spiderhngs are able to penetrate the
tough outer envelope of the cocoon and escape without any
assistance from the mother. Examination of cocoons from
Avhich the spiderhngs had all emerged sho\\ed that they con-
tained the debris of initial ecdj^ses.
Spinning the Cocoon. — On the night of 21st April our
persistent watcliing and waiting Avere rcAAarded. Shortly
after sunset the spider was noticed to be busy, and quite a differ-
ent creature from the almost motionless object of previous
nights. She had chosen a perfect moonlight night for her
toil. At first her object was not apparent, for she was at
Avork among the supporting strands near the old cocoons.
By letting herself doA\ii she sjjvm a strand, up AAhich she then
climbed, taking it with her and attaching the line horizontally.
She repeated this imtil many sujaports Avere formed for
the dainty home of the neAv brood. Then the spider sloAvly
spun a A^ertical strand by letting herself doAAn from the
upper supports. Although thin, this strand aa^s, as Avill be
