!(4 I'HOCEKDINCJS OF TIIK i;()VA[; SCCIKTV OF (^I'EENSLAND.
subsequently sliown. of .sur])ri,sing toughness. At the end of tlus
line she was sus))encle(l, and at S.30 we noticed that the great
work of spinning the cocoon \\as actually commenced. A
tiny sheet of web was spun out from the end of the central
strand. At 9 o'clock this was a])parent as a little oval tent
over the spider's back, to which she, ever spinning, added to
the circumference. In weaving this ever-growing sheet, she
twisted from side to side, the central strand rotating at her
A\ill through two-thirds of a circle, and then returning. At
9.3(1 the spider was half enveloped in a filmy cloud, as it
appeared in the moonlight, and the sheet was being gathered
into a bag. Into this bag the eggs were then laid with marvel-
lous quickness, the whole operation taking but a few minutes.
The eggs formed a glistening, globular mass about three-
eighths of an inch in diameter, and this could be easily seen
through the substance of the inner cocoon. During the process
the spiders abdomen was inside the opening in the bag.
Immediately afterwards, the mother w as seen to have lost her
great bulk, and the abdomen ap])eared to be wrinkled. At
9.45 the spider was hard at work filling the slit in the bag
through which the eggs had been laid. Did she leave a weak
place for the exit of the young, one wonders ? At 10.30 the
inner capsule was finely woven over and complete.
For the ne.xt hour the spider was unceasingly engaged in
building up a fluffy packing around and below the inner
cocoon. In this particular instance, quite a long tail, or
apical portion, was spun, but the Mork on this part varies
considerably in different egg-bags, and is probably dependent
on the immediate surroundings of the cocoons. This fluffy
packing is built u]) until its ct)ntours take the final shape of
the cocoon.
The colossal task of weaving the large outer capsule was
then commenced. Tliis is by far the most arduous portion of
all the mother's labour. The outer envelope has to be made
strong enough to protect the precious inner cocoon from the
\\ eather, from friction when blown against leav«s and branches,
from the attacks of predaceous insects, and from the ovipositors
of parasitical insects. Under magnification, its finished texture
is seen to be very closely woven, and the final result is a tough
material, not easily torn or penetrated.
During the long process of spinning this outer envelope,
the spider worked from top to bottom, head downwards,
