THE MA(;XIFICEXT SI'IDKR : DK'ROS'J'iCil IS .M AGXIFKT.S. 95
and then from bottom to to]x on the other side, head upwards.
It supported itself by gripping the eocoon with its legs mean-
w hile. Against the light the minute «ilk threads issuing from
the spinnerets could be seen as a sliining band of conjoined
lines. The legs were in no wa}- used to manipulate the threads,
but the body was moved up and down, up and down, making
a stroke of about three-eighths of an inch. One touch of the
protruding spinnerets on the cocoon sufficed to attach the
strands. The spider moved with surprising quickness?, its
spinning stroke varying from about 60 to 80 spins per minute.
During its journey up and down the capsule 260 spinning
movements were- counted, and this represented but a single
narrow sector of the whole circumference. Some idea of the
energy expended by the toiling mother in her great work
may be gauged from these figures, and one Avonders at the
strength of the muscles which move the abdomen. With
haste and Anthout rest, the process was continued, and at
midnight the cocoon had attained its final contours. The
spinning on the outer surface then reached a finer stage, and
the glossy waterproofing was being done. Instead of working
in vertical lines, the threads were attached from side to side
as the spider made its way do\\n and then up the capsule. This
lateral movement was very noticeable, and the resultant
spinning added to the toughness of the material, giving a
criss-cross weaving. The whole surface of the cocoon had
been Avoven o\'er many times.
By 1 o'clock the capsule Avas smooth and glossy, but the
spider was still Avorking up and down, making short spins
from its apparently inexhaustible reservoirs, the threads being
attached by lateral moA^ements of the abdomen.
During the Avhole process up to this time, the spider and
cocoon AA'ere suspended by the tiny A^ertical cable A\hich
appeared to be perilously slender, and Avhich swayed AAith
cA^ery moA^ement of the spinning mother. At 1.30 the spider
A\ as Avorking at the upper half of the cocoon, Avhich it clcA-erlV
lotated through three-quarters of a circle as it spun, moving
the cocoon instead of its abdomen. At 1.45 it commenced to
strengthen the slender supporting strand, somcAvhat to the
reUef of the AvearA^ though keenly interested Avatchers. For
the next half -hour it Avorked at this joedvmcle, moving up and
doAvn and occasionally partly rotating it, getting a criss-cross
effect with its AAcaA'ing. It also climbed several times up among
the supporting horizontal strands adding to the attachments.
