Of) PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF Ql'EENSLAND.
At 2.30 it was still ^vo^king at the peduncle, occasionally
finisliiiig off its spins near to the centre of the cocoon. The
peduncle of the cocoon ^vas now nearly one-eighth of an inch
in diameter, and tliis was slightly expanded again at the very
top, where attachments were made.
At 2.45 the spider stopped spinning for the first time
during the whole process, so far as we could see from our
almost continuous observations. She rested on the peduncle
for about ten minutes, and then she proceeded to test the
supporting strands, adding several to the surrounding leaves^
and twigs. This Avork Avas continued until 3.20. Lines were
taken far back among the surrounding leaves and these were
bound together, as though the spinner Avere aware that thev
might otherAA-ise fall off and imperil the AAhole structure.
Possibly this extra Avork AA-as necessary because the cocoons
Avere hanging AAith plenty of space betAveen the angle of the
tAA'o branches. Attachments AAere made to the top and to
loAver portions of the peduncle, so that the cocoon could safely
sAAing in the A^ind Avithout breaking a thread. Like a skilled
engineer, the spinner Avent carefuUj' OA^er her Avork, testing",
adding, -strengthening, as though determined to make it as
secure as Avas spiderly pos.sible. For short periods she remained
quiescent, but it Avas not until 4 o'clock that she A\'as fully satis-
fied and moA^ed .slowly along her lines to the cosy retreat.
It is astonishing to see the jiOAAers and the limitations of
instinct. Tliis skilful spinner had apparenth- neither the art
nor the incUnation to mend the rent in her cocoon when it Avas
torn by the Gryllacrid.
Probably her far-off ancestors Avere content to spin a
simple cocoon Anth but one euA'clope. And cA^en with the
double shield but fcAA- of these spiders surAive. for they do
not appear to be very common. Nature is CA-er prodigal Avith
her resources, and it ma}^ be that, of all the jirogeny of this
night of spinning under the moon, but one or two will surA'iAe
the perils of ballooning aa hen they emerge on their fearless
flight.
The fifth cocoon Avas spun on 7th Ma}', fifteen days after-
wards, on a dark, moonless night. The sixth Avas made on
23rd ^lay in threatening Aveather, the spider apparently
hesitating until after 10 o'clock Avhether or not to spin. On
14th June the scA'enth and last cocoon of the season A\as
made, this being onh' tAvo-thirds the size of the others.
