THE MAGXIPICEXT >;PIDER : DICROSTICIIUS MAGNIFICUS. 97
Spiderlings from the cocoon made on the 21st April did
rot emerge until the 25th July.
Reynarlcahle Method of Catching Prey. — Rainbow referred
to the retitelarian nature of the web of this spider (3), but my
observations definitely show that Dkrostichus magnificus does
not catch its prey in a web, at any rate in the cocoon-making
season. Except for the many supporting strands for the
cocoons, and the simple lines by which it suspends itself, which
are also connected with the closely woven retreat, no other web
is spun. None of these lines are sticky and no insect can be
caught on them. There is no web entanglement to trap the
moths on which it feeds. Shortly after sunset, the spider hangs
suspended on a more or less horizontal line near to its cocoons,
^ly wife and I repeatedly found it sucking a common species
of Noctuid moth {Remigra frugalis Fabr.) which it had secured
in some mysterious way. Close and persistent watching
through many nights revealed the remarkable method by
which it caught them.( From its slender bridge it would sjjin
a filament, usually about one and a-half inches in length, which
was suspended downwards ; on the end of this was a globule
of very viscid matter, a little larger than the head of an
ordinary pin, occasionally with several smaller globules above.
This filament was held out by one of the front legs, the miniature
apparatus bearing a c£uaint resemblance to a fisherman's rod
and line. On the approach of a moth, the spider whirls the
filament and globule with surprising speed, and this is
undoubtedly the way in which it secures its prey) The moths
are unquestionably attracted to an effective extent by the
spider, whether by scent or by its colour we cannot say. We
certainly could not distinguish the slightest odour. But the
fact remains that night after night one or two moths would
flutter up and be caught. Other moths near by seemed to be
indifferent, but two were often secured in the space of an
hour, one of which would be packed away on the fine to be
sucked later, r The spectacle of the moth fluttering up to the
spider, sometimes two or even t|iree times before it was caught,
is one of the most interesting little processes which the writer
has ever witnessed in natural history. The supposed desire
of the moth for the star is a poet's fancy, but the attraction
of the moth to the Dicrostichus, although mysterious, can be
seen by any patient watcher.y
The globule is composed 'of most tenacious material, and
{{uite large leaves can be suspended on it by a mere touch.
