On the Biology and Economic Significance of
the Chalcid Parasites of Australian Sheep
Maggot-flies.
By Professor T. Habvey Johnston, M.A.. D.Sc, and
O. W. TiEGS, M.Sc, Walter and Eliza Hall Fellow in
Economic Biology, University, Brisbane.
(Plates IX. and X.)
{Bead before the Royal Society of Queensland, 25th July, 1921.)
Sheep maggot-flies are amongst the commonest and most
widely spread insects in Australia. When one tal-ces into
consideration the extensive degree of parasitism exhibited by
Hymenoptera upon other insects, it might reasonably be
expected that numerous species would }*e found which depend
for their existence on this abundant food supply. A number
of such wasps have actually been discovered in Australia,
mainly by ]\Ir. W. W. Froggatt, of Sj^clney. In the jDresent
]iaper three other primary parasites f)f sheep blowflies are
recorded. Careful search would, no doubt, reveal the presence
of other species.
The forms hitherto recorded are — (1) Nasoma brevicorniit
Ashmead ; (2) Dirhinus sarcophagce Froggatt ; (8) Chalcis
rallijihorce Froggatt ; (4) HemUevomyia abrupta Dodd. The
following forms in addition to Xos. 1. 2, and 3 have been
found parasitizing either the larvse or the pupae of blowflies
in Brisbane under natural conditions : — (5) SpaJangia musci-
darufn Richardson ; (6) an Encyrtid wasp, for which the name
Aiislralencyrtus giraulti, n. gen., n. sn.. is proposed ; ('/) and
a Proctotrypid (Diapriid) wasp, apjiarently also new, for
which we propose the name ParaspUoinicnis froggatti, n. gen.,
n. sp. (8) An eighth species, Pachycrepoideus dubius Ashmead.
has been recorded by Girault,from North Queensland, where no
doubt it parasitizes Muscoid flies, as elsewhere. (9) Probably
Chalcis diplerojihaga Girault & Dodd is a parasite of blowflies.
In the present paper we give (.A) an account of the biology
of some of these forms, together \\ith some general remarks
on each species : (B) a discussion of the role they can be made
to play in the control of the sheep flies ; (C) a description of
two apparently ncAV wasp parasites of Australian blowflies.
Some information relating to these hymenopterous para-
sites of flies has been recently published })y one of us (Johnston,
1921).
