104 PROCEEDINGS OF TJIE ROYAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
less readily selected by the ohalcid for parasitism than the
others mentioned. Johnston and Bancroft (1020) added Musca
domestka, M. vetustissima, 31. hilli, and M. teme-reginre. Altson
(1920) gives a list of British hosts. No less than eight specie.,
of flies {Musca domestica and seven blowflies) are mentioned
by Girault and Sanders as capable of becoming parasitized by
Nasonia} We have found the v. asp able to parasitize, in
addition, the pupae of the various species ol SarcopJmga recently
described by us as breeding in carrion {S. aiirijrons, S. impatiens,
S. irrequieta, S. misera., etc.)
2. Paraspilomicrus froggatti Johnston and Tiegs.
(Figs. 4, 7, 8. is. 19.)
This Proctotrypid Avas first obtained from naturally
infected Lucilia pupae in November, 1920. A number of
wasps (eight altogether) were bred from a single pupa.
Fertilisation takes place soon after hatching. The male
sits upon the female, the long antennae intertwining and
undergoing a short vibration every few seconds, producing a
most ludicrous effect. During oviposition the wasp adopts a
curious arched attitude (fig. 8), the egg-lajdng process lasting
about ten m'nutes. No developmental stages have been
observed by us.
This wasp was seen around Brisbane in October and
November, 1920, and again in April, 1921, but never
commonly. A description of this apparently new genus and
species is given at the end of this paper.
3. Spalangia muscidarum Richardson. (Fig. 3.)
This wasp was first recorded from Australia by Johnston
and Bancroft (1920), who found it parasitizing various flies
{Musca spp. and Stomoxtjs calcitrans) in Eidsvold, Burnett
River, Queensland. They stated that in captivity females
would parasitize Pycnosoma rufifacies, P. varipes, Para-
calliphora augur, Chrysomyia dux, Sarcophaga spp., as well as
other sheep and carrion flies. We have also seen a number
of these wasps bred from Lucilia pupae from Roma, by Mr. F.
Taylor ; also some in the U.S. National Museum, Washington,
bred from Musca domestica in Adelaide and forwarded by
Mr. A. M. Lea. During February this wasp appeared attacking
the large golden species of Sarcojihaga {S. impatiens, etc.) in
Brisbane. It is, then, one of the natural enemies of sheep
maggot-flies.
1 A paper dealing with the biology of N. brevicarius has been
published by E. Roubaud (Bull. Sci. France and Belgique 1917,
pp. 425-439— abstract in Rev. Appl. Ent., B, 5, 1917, pp. 157-9).
