CMALCID PARASITES OF AUSTRALIAN SHEEP MAGGOT-FLIES. 105
The total period from egg deposition to the emergence
of the wasp was 21 to 28 days during midsummer, and never
more than one wasp developed from a single pupa (Jolmston
and Bancroft, 1920). With Sarcophaga impatiens during
February the period varied considerably, being between 23
and 30 days ; and no more than one wasp appeared from even
these large pupae.
This chalcid appears to be widely distributed over Southern
Queensland, though probably not common.
4, Dirhinus sarcophagse Froggatt. (Figs. 2, 10, 23, 24, 34.)
This wasp was iirst described and figured by Froggatt
(1919), who bred it from pupae of Sarcophaga aurifrons Macq.
It occurs also in Brisbane and is most common about February.
It will parasitize any of the common sheep-fly pupae, Pycnosoma
(both species), Lucilia spp., and Sarcophaga spp. being readily
attacked. During oviposition the wasp assumes a most
remarkable, uncouth attitude (fig. 2), remaining in this position
for about fifteen minutes, and seems obHvious to everything
going on around it, so that the pupa with the parasitizing
Avasp can readily be lifted without disturbing the latter. After
oviposition is completed the wasp settles on the pupa in a
crouching attitude for a long time, and then wanders off,
usually to attack another.
The egg measures -68 mm in length and -17 in breadth
(fig. 34). The egg period has not been observed. The maggot
is a large whitish legless creature (fig. 23 ; Froggatt, 1919,
p. 854, fig. 1) which feeds on the outside of the fly-nymph
just as Nasonia does. It measure from 3 to 4 mm. in length.
The third instar does not appear to possess jaws. Its
head is a curious structure and is provided with two prominent
lips (fig. 10), the action of which causes the liquid contents
of the disintegrating fly larva to flow into the mouth. The
larvae appear to be predaceous ; for on several occasions two
larvae were found within a fly-pupa, yet not more than one
wasp was observed to emerge from each fly-pupa. The wasp-
pupa is a large white creature (fig. 24), with the characteristic
Dirhinus appearance. The pupal period has not been deter-
mined but it is more than 7 days. The total period from ovi-
position to emergence during November, 1920, was found to
be 25 days ; but during January, 1921, as much as 28 days.
