106 l^KOCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
Mr." Froggatt regards this wasp as being capable of digging
AA-ell beneath the soil in search of Sarcophaga pupae. This is
probably not the case. .Sarcophagid flies pupate just as
frequently on the surface of the soil as do the other carrion-
flies, and it is doubtful whether the wasp would trouble to
attack those beneath the surface of the soil, when there are
more accessible pupae available. On one occasion this alleged
habit was tested. Soil containing pupated larvae was put into
a bottle, together with a female Dirhinus ; she could easily
have reached them by a little digging (the soil being about
one inch in depth), but took no notice whatever of the buried
pupai, and after a few hours' captivity spent all her time in
trying to escape.
5. Pachycrepoideus dubius Ashmead.
This Avasp was first described from U.S.A., where it
parasitizes the house-fly. It has been recorded by Girault
from Northern Queensland, but nothing further is known about
it in tliis country. Undoubtedly it attacks various flics
occurring in that locality.
6. Hemilexomyia abrupta Dodd.
This Diapriid wasp was first described and figured by
W. W.and J. L. Froggatt (1917, pp. 32-33) as being bred from
a blowfly (? Ophyra nigra), axiAivom Musca domestica (1918,
p. 18) near Hay, N.S.W. It was more fully described and
named by Dodd (1920, p. 421) under the above designation.
The latter author reported it as a parasite of Ophyra nigra and
CaUiphora villosa (i.e. Neopollenia stygia) in N.S.W. (Froggatt
collection). It has not been found in Brisbane.
7. Chalcis calliphorse Froggatt.-
This fairly large insect was described by Froggatt (1916,
p. 506 ; 1917, p. 30) from Hay district, N.S.W., as a black
wasp about the size of a small housefly, with reddish-yello\\-
antennse, oval shining red-brown abdomen, and Avith thickened
hind femora. This chalcid, which breeds readily in captivity,
attacks blowfly larvae and does not prevent their pupation
before destruction occurs.
2 D. Miller (N. Z. Jour. Agric, 22 J\.me, 1921) states that large
numbers of this parasite, obtained from Australia, were liberated in
New Zealand two years ago, but that no definite results have yet been
attained.
