CHALCID PARASITES OF A[-STRALIAN SHEEP MAGGOT-FLIES. 107
8. Chalcis dipterophaga Girault and Docld.
Syn. : C. calliphorce Johnston 1921 (from Brisbane).
This rather large wasp, which seems to differ from C. calli-
phorce only in the lighter colouration of the antennae and
abdomen, AA^as found on one occasion in Brisbane to be
attracted to blowfly maggots. There is little doubt that the
species is a parasite of the latter. Girault (1915) reported that
this Chalcid Avas bred from dipterous puparia in North
Queensland.
9. Australencyrtus giraulti Johnston and Tiegs.
(Figs. 1, 9, 11-17, 25-2G.)
This Encyrtid wasp, of which a description is giA^en at
the end of the paper, was first discovered attacking sheepfly
maggots in Brisbane in October, 1920. It was soon found that
it could be bred AAith comparatiA^e ease and in large numbers.
On one occasion many thousand individuals AAere obtained
after several generations from a single female. During Feb-
ruary, 1921, the wasp AAas again seen in the open, AA'hile during
April it was quite common around decaying meat. A few
specimens were seen during July, 1921.
The female attacks all the common sheep bloAA'flies in
their larval state, seeming to prefer smooth maggots {Chry-
somyia dux, Lucilia spp., Paracalliphora augur), but AA'ill quite
readily attack the " hairy " Pycnosoma larvae (P. riififacies
and P. varipes) as aa^cU as those of the thick-skinned Sarcophaga
spp. The wasps are exceedingly actiA^e, especially the females,
Avhich settle on any part of the maggots (fig. 1), and immediately
begin to OAdposit after shoAving great dexterity in cHnging to
the maggot as the latter crawls or wriggles. As a rule they
do^ not appear to hurt the maggot in any Avay during the
operation, though sometimes the latter is seen to Avrithe a
little, no doubt when the oAdpositor happens to injure a nerve.
Under artificial conditions numerous wasps commonly
attack a maggot at once. When some decaying meat is exposed
these wasps can often be seen close to the living maggots,
and they will cA^en attempt to parasitize those AA'hich are
wrigghng about immediately beneath the soil. OA^position
lasts from a quarter to half a minute, but at times Avhen the
maggot is quiet it will take considerably longer. Usually about
seven eggs appear to be laid at each act of OA^iposition. Some-
times as many as twenty-nine wasps emerge from a pupa
(artificially infected, probably by seA^eral Avasps), the insects
