K)8 PROCEEDINGS OP THE ROYAL SOCIETY OF QUEENSLAND.
being then considerably smaller than usual. If pupae be too
heavily parasitized, then neither wasps nor flies emerge. The
following numbers were obtained from six artificially infected
fly-pujia?, kept under observation : 29, 26, 22, 14, 11, 10.
The freshly laid egg is rather long and somewhat irre-
gularly shaped, measuring -208 mm. in length and -076 mm.
in breadth. A small clear area can be seen at one end of the
otherwise granular protoplasm ; and it is here that the egg
membrane possesses a micropyle (fig. 16). The egg soon
begins to segment by the usual peripheral segmentation
method characteristic of insects. After 24. hours it is in a
high state of segmentation and the developing embryo can
be seen in the middle (fig. 17). The egg has by this time
contracted considerably, measuring only -164 mm. in length
by 072 mm. in breadth. Hatching appears to take place in
about 48 hours, but this statement is made with considerable
reserve.
The larva is of the usual 14-segmented type, the nine
spiracles together with the tracheae being very evident (fig. 25).
Feeding appears to take place much in the same way as in
Nasonia, that is, by a suctorial action produced by the alter-
nate action of protrusive (sphincter) and retractile buccal
muscles (fig. 9). A pair of chitinous jaws, resembling those
of the third instar of Nasonia, are present. The midgut does
not communicate with the rectum luitil the end of the feeding
stage, when, probably after a period of resting, defiecation
takes place, and then after about one day the larva moults
and a pupa appears (fig. 26).
The pupa is at first white in colour ; after a few days the
eyes redden and then the whole pupa darkens and gradually
develops into the adult. The full period, from oviposition to
emergence of the adult, occupies about 20 days in midsummer.
In October it was found to be 25 days, in February 21, in May
as much as 28 or even 30 days, the time gradually lengthening
between February and May as the weather became cooler.
In June and July it occupied approximately six weeks.
It was found that \\hen wasps wliich had just emerged
from the fly-pupa were isolated they would parasitize maggots
as usual, and further that the offspring consisted of males
and females in the normal proportion, which we have ascer-
tained to be about 3:7. It must, therefore, be inferred that
