CHALCID PARASITES OF Al'STRALIAX SIlEEl' MAGGOT-FLIES. Ill
that a parasite will readily attack its host under laboratory
conditions, wiU it do so on an extended scale where its host
is accessible in large numbers ? For example, Australencyrtus
giraulti will attack maggots -nith great avidity in the labora-
tory, but it is not known whether it would do so if given
the same opportunity on a large scale in nature. The only
way to test this Avould be to liberate the parasite in numbers
in a given district and see if it Avould establish itself.
If any one of the factors be continuously unfavourable,
then the parasite cannot be of any very great importance. If
finally the parasite is to eradicate the host, not only would all
these conditions have to be very favourable, but a fourth
factor would have to be taken into account, i.e. the relative
rate of breeding of host species and parasites. It will now be
necessary to examine the effect of chalcid wasps on sheep-flies
along these lines.
An immense amount of material for parasitizing is con-
stantly available to these wasj^s ; it follows, obviously, that
any parasite which is not common can destr6y only a very
small percentage of the available larvae or pupae ; if the
available material, however great in amount, is small compared
with what is not available, the economic importance of the
parasite is practically nil. It seems, as will be shown below,
that such is the case with those wasps Avhich attack the fly-
pupaj ; and such forms as Dirhinus sarcophagce, Hemilexomyia
abrwpta, Pachi/crepoideus dubius, and Paraspilomicnis froggatti
must be regarded as nothing more than entomologically interest-
ing. Their scarcity probably depends on the unfavourable
nature of the third factor, possibh^ also on the presence of
enemies, or on poor food supply.
Spalangia muscidaruyn has been recorded as parasitizing
various Muscid flies to a great extent in Eidsvold ; it was also
occasionally found destroying blowflies in Roma and in
Brisbane, but there is as yet no evidence to show that it is of
any more practical use against the sheep maggot-fly pest than
such a form as Dirhinus sarcophagce.
Of Nasonia hrevicornis much has been hoped ; by some
it has been regarded as the ultimate means of actually eradi-
cating, or at any rate controlUng, the blowfly. Taking into
consideration the above general remarks, it will be seen that
these claims are founded on no very firm evidence. Even
