112 I'HOCEEDIXUS OF THE KOVAL S(!(IKTV OF (^I^EENSLANU,
assuming that all the other factors are fa%()urable (which is,
however, not the case) it is evident that Xasonia cannot
possibly act as an efficient control, since the blowflies breed
not only faster but also more numerously. Suppose, for
example, we liberated a single female Nasonia and a single
gravid female blowfly, e.g. Pycnosoma, in a certain district
in which neither occurred. The blowfly would lay about
250 eggs, all of which, it may be assumed, would possibly
produce adults. Now Nasonia would parasitize these pupie
to such an extent that about 113 offspring would be produced
by it — not at the expense of 113 blowflies however, but of only
about 17 to 20, as already mentioned. Nasonia, in_ fact,
would be a much more useful insect if it laid only one egg per
pupa. Hence after the very first generation we would have
113 chalcids and about 230 blowflies ; after the next few
generations the difference would become very great, and
if the flies had no other enemies they would soon overrun the
country. Even if we contrast the period (a) which elapses
between the de^position of eggs by the chalcid and oviposition
by the females which emerge from such eggs (oviposition
occurring 'within a few hours after emergence), with (b) that
occupied by Pycnosoma from its deposition as an egg until thp
resulting female is capable of ovipositing, it appears that the
above result \\'ill not be materially affected ; since (a) the
wasp period referred to, during midsummer in Brisbane, is
about 14 days, whereas {b) in the case of the blowfly it is from
14 to 16 days distributed as follows — about 9 to 10 days in
the immature stages (egg, larva, and pupa) and about 5 to 6
days after emergence before egg-la jang takes place. As an
effective control, then, Xasonia is of little value. To what
extent, then, does it act as a check ? This depends entirely
upon the ratio of the number of pupae to which it has access,
to the number of those which it cannot harm. Simple experi-
ments, such as enclosing a number of these chalcids in a jar
in the bottom of which was a thin layer of soil containing pupse,
showed definitely that the wasps would not dig into the ground,
It is necessary, therefore, to inquire as to the proportion of
pupae lying on the soil to those below it. The following simple
experiments were carried out during the summer of 1920-21 in
Brisbane, but it should be carefully noted that they wore
performed partly under laboratory conditions and partly
under natural local conditions, but not under sheep-district
conditions. It is reasonable to assume, therefore, that similar
