AUTHOR'S PREFACE vii
oecological problems, and are framing their theoretical opinions
on the basis of accurately observed facts and critically conducted
experiments.
A satisfactory general survey of oecological plant-distribution
cannot be attempted with the material at present available. This
book is therefore chiefly of a tentative nature, and attempts by
a precise statement of pending questions to stimulate further
research.
The Greatest care has been given to the choice and execution
of the illustrations, which, by the delineation partly of single
objects and partly of masses of vegetation, portray the connexion
between plant-life and its environment much better than the most
detailed descriptions. Thanks to the great kindness of a number
of fellow botanists and naturalists, I have been able to collect
a number of photographic views of characteristic vegetation. I
am indebted to the following gentlemen and departments, to whom
I now again express my gratitude : — forest-inspector W. W. Ashe
(N. Carolina), Privatdoc. A. Bauer (Marburg), Prof. Bessey (Lin-
coln, Nebr.), Sir Dietrich Branclis (Bonn), Prof. D. H. Campbell
(California), L. Cockayne (Christchurch, New Zealand), Prof. J. M.
Coulter (Chicago), Prof. Deichmiiller (Bonn), the Geological depart-
ment of the University of Nebraska, Grigoriew, Secretary of the
Imp. Russian Geographical Society (St. Petersburg), P. Groom (Ox-
ford), Prof. G. Karsten (Kiel), Lieutenant Kaznakoff (St. Petersburg),
J. Kobus (Pasoeroean, Java), Prof. Krasnov (Kharkov), Dr. P. Kuc-
kuck (Heligoland), G. Ktippers-Loosen (Cologne), Prof. Kukenthal
(Jena), Prof. Kusnezov (Dorpat), Prof. MacMillan (Minneapolis),
Prof. Pohlig (Bonn), Prof. Rothrock (West Chester, Pa.), Prof. Sar-
gent (Brooklyn, Mass.), Privatdoc. A. Schenck (Halle), Prof. H.
Schenck (Darmstadt), F. Sonnecken (Bonn), Dr. O. Stapf (Kew),
Geheimrath Prof. Strasburger (Bonn), W. Swingle (Florida), Dr.
Treub (Buitenzorg, Java), Prof. O. Warburg (Berlin), G. H. Webber
(Florida). Lady Brandis of Bonn has also been kind enough to
place at my disposal her beautiful Indian water-colour drawings,
which are so true to nature.
I have also to thank several of the above-mentioned gentle-
men for important assistance in reference to literature, research-
material, and the like. In this respect I am indebted also to the
