CHAE. V] THE SOIL 107
phanerogams and ferns have utilized this property of lower plants, and are
thus able to absorb indirectly from humus both carbon and nitrogen ; in
general, however, these substances are taken, not from humus, but from
the carbon dioxide of the air and from the nitrates of the soil.
Of more general importance than carbon dioxide and nitrogen to most
plants are the ash-constituents, which humus contains in a more con-
centrated form and in a better state of mechanical subdivision than do the
purely mineral deeper layers of the soil. The w r ealth of humus in useful
ash-constituents depends partly on the amount of such matter in the
decomposing plant-parts, and partly on the activity of earthworms, which
bring up from below the constituents of the soil, reduce them to a fine
state of division, and mix them with humus in their alimentary canals. If
to the above properties of humus be added the power of absorption, we can
thoroughly understand its beneficial effects on vegetation. However, as
will be shown later on, not all kinds of humus possess these properties, or
form a good substratum for plant-life.
The organic constituents of humus are as yet imperfectly known. Some
have an acid character, and form with alkalis soluble, and with alkaline
earths insoluble, dark-coloured compounds. Brown humus-substances are
comprehended under the collective name ulmic acid, and the blacker ones
under that of Jiumic acid. The neutral constituents of humus that are
insoluble in alkalis are termed huuius, if they are black, and humiu, if they
are brown. A deficient supply of oxygen favours the formation and
accumulation of acid compounds and hence the formation of acid humus,
which, in contrast with mild humus resulting from an abundant supply of
oxygen, does not permit the development of a luxuriant vegetation that is
rich in species.
Mild humus is usually loose in texture and is then termed mould. It is
intimately mixed with mineral constituents, and by the gradual increase of
these it insensibly passes over into the purely mineral subsoil. Mould
occurs on moderately damp fresh soil only, and attains its most complete
development in shady forests, where the earthworms pass it continually
through their alimentary canal and eject it in the form of separate pellets
loose in texture. The mould in forests actually consists of worm-
excrements, and its excellent qualities are due to this circumstance. The
rich aeration of mould leads to the formation of highly oxidized neutral
substances ; acids form only about a sixteenth of its organic substance.
Acid humus is usually matured in the form of peat. The latter, in
contrast with mould, forms a cohesive compact crust, which lies superposed
on the mineral layers of the soil, without gradually passing over into them.
Only the abundant humous acids that are soluble in water penetrate the
mineral soil and give to it a dark colour. In opposition to mould, which in
rainy weather rapidly becomes saturated, peat is only slightly permeable, so
