io8 THE FACTORS [Part I
that rain-water collects on it in puddles. With persistent rain, however,
it becomes full of water like a sponge, but without yielding any water to
the underlying mineral soil.
Acid humus arises whenever the supply of oxygen is only slight, namely
on soils below stagnant water, but also in dry sunny stations, where earth-
worms are rare, for these animals would prevent the humus from caking
into a solid mass. For the same reason, peat does not contain the mineral
constituents of the subsoil which are intimately mixed with the humus by
the burrowing activity of the organisms inhabiting mould.
Wet peat, or peat in the ordinary sense of the word, is characteristic of
moors, dry peat of heaths. The latter may be differentiated from moor
peat, as heath peat. Dry peat is also found in forests, as soon as the soil
has dried after a clearance of the wood and the worms have died out ; in
this way the first step is taken towards the conversion of a forest into
a heath. Except for the amount of water they contain, the difference
between the heath peat and moor peat does not seem to be very notice-
able. The elevated and drier parts of moors bear essentially the same
vegetation as true heaths on dry soil.
ii. THE MYCORHIZA.
Mould and peat are penetrated in all directions by an extraordinary
tangle of mycelial threads belonging to various forms of fungi, hitherto
rarely identified and appearing to differ from one another in the different
kinds of humus. These fungi can exist not only as parasites but also as
saprophytes, and form, as they envelop the roots of the higher plants, the
so-called mycorhiza, which appears to possess a high significance in the
physiological processes of the nutrition of many forest and heath plants ;
it is in fact probable that the fungus acts upon the organic components of
the humus and partly transfers them in an assimilable form to the roots.
Mycorhiza was discovered by Kamienski in Monotropa Hypopitys
(Figs. $6, 57) and in Fagus sylvatica (Fig. 58) and its importance recognized.
Later, Frank as well as Wahrlich, Johow, Schlicht, Oliver, Groom, Janse,
and others demonstrated the constant appearance of mycorhiza on many
other phanerogams and on pteridophytes, some of them green and some
not green, and it was assumed that these plants required the mycorhiza for
their normal existence. The name mycorhiza was invented by Frank.
The fungus of mycorhiza forms either, as a mere epiphyte, a thick
coating round the root, which in such cases is devoid of root-hairs, or it
lives within the root as an endophyte. In both cases the hyphae are
connected with the mycelium ramifying in the soil and belonging in certain
established cases to recognized species of fungi. Wahrlich recognized
species of Nectria (N. Vandae and N. Goroschankiniana) in the mycorhiza
of several orchids, whilst Noack, Reess, and Fisch recognized in Elaphomyces
