Chap. V]
THE SOIL
in
There can be no doubt that the fungus derives certain nutritive materials from its host.
That, conversely, matter passes from the fungus into the cells of the host, is proved at the
death of the vesicles, which shrivel up as they give out a liquid. It was not possible to
determine what the latter contains in solution, or what is the composition of the
granular mass that remains in the dead vesicle and is not utilized by the host.
Most plants provided with a mycorhiza obtain from it, in any case, only
a portion of the carbon that they need. Some plants however, especially
those growing in deep forest shade, are entirely dependent on the mycorhiza
and have lost their chlorophyll. They, like fungi that nourish themselves
directly on humus, are termed saprophytes. Plants that contain chlorophyll
but nevertheless require the organic constituents
of humus are IiemisapropJiytes, an intermediate
stage between true saprophytes {Jiolo saprophytes)
and completely autotrophic plants. Sapro-
phytes will be discussed in a future chapter.
iii. CHEMICAL DIFFERENCES IN HUMUS
AND THE RESULTING FLORA.
The floras of mild and of acid humus are
quite dissimilar. Many species may be at once
described as characteristic of the one or the
other kind of humus ; for instance, for mild
humus, Asperula odorata, Mercurialis perennis,
Milium effusum, Melica uniflora, Stellaria
nemorum ; for acid humus, Aira flexuosa,
Maianthemum bifolium, Melampyrum pratense,
and several mosses, such as Hylocomium tri-
quetrum, Polytrichum formosum, Leucobryum.
On the very acid humus of moors the vegetation
assumes a decidedly xerophilous character, because
the humous acids impede the absorption of zvater
by the roots.
Mild and acid humus are collective terms for numerous kinds of humus
that vary according to the nature of the decomposing plants. The
differences between them are more easily discovered by the fine chemical
analysis of plants than by the rough chemical analysis of our laboratories.
Each kind of humus has its characteristic species of plants. There are
plants depending on the different kinds of humus, as on the mineral
constituents of soils — some confined to one kind of humus, others that are
indifferent. Many species of plants grow only on the humus of coniferous
forests ; for instance, Goodyera repens and the North American saprophyte
Schweinitzia odorata. Monotropa Hypopitys occurs in broad-leaved
forests almost exclusively in its glabrous form, in coniferous forests in its
r>
Fig. 60. Thismia Aseroe.
Two cells of the mycorhiza.
After P. Groom.
