112
THE FACTORS [Part I
hirsute form. Thus we have here a case parallel to that of the calciphilous
Gentiana acaulis and its calciphobous ally, Gentiana excisa.
The choice of the substratum goes even further with many humus-plants,
especially among the lower cryptogams. Phanerogams and pteridophytes
are less exclusive, yet I always found Trichomanes sinuosum widely spread
in tropical America and growing exclusively on tree-ferns, and the North
American Epidendrum conopseum preferring the bark of magnolias to that
of other plants.
Among mosses growing on humus, all intermediate forms are found
between those making a promiscuous choice of any kind of humus soil to
others showing quite a decided and often highly peculiar exclusiveness.
Decaying tree-stems have their characteristic species of mosses, such as
Plagiothecium silesiacum and Buxbaumia indusiata, which do not occur on
living trunks of trees. The latter have again a rich moss-flora (for instance
Leucodon sciuroides, many species of Orthotrichum), the components of
which do not appear in other habitats. Most epiphytic mosses are not
strict in their choice, although many are limited to definite kinds of trees.
Thus Orthotrichum leucomitrium occurs only on conifers, whilst species of
Zygodon, and Barbula latifolia, appear on broad-leaved trees only. More
strict in their selection are, for instance, Ulota Drummondii, which has been
observed only on Pyrus aucuparia ; Orthotrichum gymnostomum, which is
attached only to Populus tremula ; the rare Anacamptodon splachnoides,
which hitherto has been found only in cavities on the beech left by fallen
boughs. The Splachnaceae almost exclusively frequent animal humus,
and are generally very strict in their choice ; thus Tayloria splachnoides
occurs on decomposing bodies of several animals, and Tetraplodon mnioides
on various excrements ; Tayloria serrata, on the other hand, only on
decomposing human excrement, Tayloria Rudolphiana on the dung of
birds of prey as it lies on the boughs of trees, Tetraplodon urceolatus on
the dung of sheep, goats, and geese, Splachnum ampullaceum on cow-dung,
Splachnum luteum and S. rubrum on that of reindeer.
Saprophytic fungi comport themselves like mosses. Many of them are
seen wherever the remains of plants and animals are decaying, others again
are confined to definite substrata. Thus species of Marasmius only occur
on fallen spruce needles, Antennatula pinophila only on fallen silver-fir
needles, Hypoderma Lauri only on fallen bay-leaves, Septoria Menyanthis
only on the submerged decomposing leaves of the buckbean, Poronia
punctata only on cow-dung, Gymnoascus uncinatus only on decomposing
excrement of mice, Ctenomyces serratus only on rotting goose-feathers,
Onygena corvina only on the down of birds of prey, Onygena equina only
on rottino- hoofs.
