Chap. V] THE SOIL n 3
9. LIVING SUBSTRATA: PARASITES.
Man)- plants grow purely as epiphytes on living substrata without taking
any material from them. This is however not the case with parasites, the
mode of life and nutrition of which will be described in a later chapter.
Here merely the relations of parasites to the chemical nature of the sub-
stratum will be considered.
Plant-parasites occur on animals as well as on plants, but the species are
distinct in the two cases. In other respects, parasites, like plants growing
on humus, are sometimes very strict, and sometimes less so, in their
choice as regards the chemical nature of the substratum. The common
mistletoe, Viscum album, occurs both on conifers and on broad-leaved trees,
usually, however, in distinct varieties ; the typical form with white berries
prefers broad-leaved trees, a form with yellow little fruits (V. laxum) is, on
the other hand, more or less confined to conifers. Loranthus europaeus
attacks oaks and chestnuts ; Arceuthobium Oxycedri, in Europe, is
confined to Juniperus Oxycedrus, but in North America to certain species
of Pinus.
The different species of Orobanche comport themselves very differently.
Thus O. minor was found by G. Beck on fifty-eight different species of
plants, O. ramosa on thirty-five, whilst many other species of this genus are
confined to certain definite hosts ; for example, O. Rapum to Sarothamnus
scoparius.
Many fungi attack indifferently plants or animals belonging to natural
orders wide apart, others have a larger or smaller circle of nearly allied
hosts, such as Claviceps purpurea on grasses, Cordyceps cinerea on species
of Carabus. Others are strictly confined to one species of host, such as
Peronospora Radii on Pyrethrum inodorum, Laboulbenia Baeri on the
house-fly.
So far as is known, such exclusive relations are limited to natural
conditions. Brefeld succeeded in growing several strictly parasitic fungi as
saprophytes and Moller in cultivating lichens without Algae, just as it has
been found possible to rear in the garden halophytes that in nature are
confined strictly to a richly saline soil.
On the whole, in their choice of a substratum, parasites and saprophytes
exhibit differences similar to those among plants that are rooted in a
mineral soil, and a comparison between the two classes is very instructive
as regards the significance of the chemical nature of the substratum.
Among the plants that grow on mineral soil we have learned to distinguish
some that behave themselves quite indifferently as regards soil, some that
show a more or less decided preference for certain chemically definite kinds
of soil, and some that appear always dependent on the presence of large
