ii 4 THE FACTORS [Part I
quantities of definite mineral substances, such as common salt or carbonate
of lime. Mutatis mutandis, the same holds good, but with a greater
diversity, for plants growing on an organic substratum.
We found in particular among lime-plants the phenomenon, at first
sight puzzling, that one and the same species in different localities made
quite different demands as to the chemical nature of the substratum. The
same phenomenon also occurs in relation to many parasites. The mistletoe
in many districts attacks only the silver-fir, in others only broad-leaved
trees. Loranthus europaeus in Bohemia grows only on the oak, in the
East on the chestnut also. Puccinia sessilis on Convallaria majalis. P.
Digraphidis on Polygonatum multiflorum and Maianthemum Convallaria,
P. Paridis on Paris quadrifolia, are in many regions strictly confined to
their usual hosts ; in other regions, however, they grow indiscriminately
on Convallaria, Polygonatum, Maianthemum, or Paris, and are thus in-
different as to substratum (Magnus). A similar condition holds good for
many other fungi. There cannot be a doubt but that, as in the case of
plants in relation to lime and other mineral salts, here too differences in
organization come into play, which differences in turn correspond to dis-
similar requirements as regards the conditions of life. Such changes in
organization are not always open to ocular demonstration, as in many cases
they are confined to the most minute structure of the protoplasm and are
beyond the reach of our means of observation. There are, however, species
of rust-fungi that in certain stages of their development agree with one
another completely, but in other stages distinctly and constantly differ and
are purely ' physiological ' species ; they can be distinguished from one
another by no morphological character, and yet show a decidedly specific
character in that they are connected with different host-plants and lack any
power of reciprocal interchange (Eriksson).
SELECT LITERATURE.
i. The Physical Properties of the Soil.
Gain, Ed. I. Action de l'eau du sol sur la vegetation. Revue generale de botanique.
Tome VII. 1895.
II. Recherches sur le role physiologique de l'eau dans la vegetation. Annales
des sciences naturelles. y e serie. Tome XX. 1895.
Hoffmann, H. Untersuchungen zur Klima- und Bodenkunde mit Riicksicht auf die
Vegetation. Botanische Zeitung. Bd. XXIII. 1865. Beilage.
Mayer, Ad. Die Bodenkunde. 4. Auflage. 1895. (Lehrb. der Agriculturchemie.
Zweiter Theil. 1. Abth.).
Sachs, J. v. Ueber den Einfluss der chemischen und physikalischen Beschaffenheit
des Bodens auf die Transpiration der Pflanzen. Landw. Versuchsstationen,
1859. (Ges. Abhandl. Bd. I. p. 417.)
Thurmann, J. Essai de phytostatique appliquee a la chaine du Jura. Berne, 1849.
