Chap. VI]
ANIMALS
121
(Calliste larvata, Du Bus.). These and many others were certain to be found
where the climbing Marcgravia umbellata expanded its curious flowers (Fig.
61). The flowers of this lofty climber are disposed in a circle, hanging down-
wards, like an inverted candelabrum. From the centre of the circle of flowers
is suspended a number of pitcher-like vessels, which, when the flowers expand,
in February and March, are filled with a sweetish liquid. This liquid attracts
insects, and the insects numerous insectivorous birds, including the species I
have mentioned and many kinds of humming-birds. The flowers are so disposed,
with the stamens hanging downwards, that the birds, to get at the pitchers, must
brush against them, and thus convey the pollen from one plant to another. A
second species of Marcgravia, that I found in the woods around Santo Domingo,
has the pitchers placed close to the pedicels of the flowers, so that the birds must
approach them from
above; and in this
species the flowers
are turned upwards,
and the pollen is
brushed off by the
breasts of the birds.'
The ornithophily of a
species of Erythrina
was also established
by Belt : . . . ' Many
flowers, like the Marc-
gravia, are specially
adapted to secure the
aid of small birds, par-
ticularly humming-
birds, for this pur-
pose. Amongst these,
the " palosabre," a
species of Erythrina,
a small tree, bearing
red flowers, that
grew in this valley,
near the brook,
often drew my attention. The tree blooms in February, and is at the
time leafless, so that the large red flowers are seen from a great distance.
Each flower consists of a single long, rather fleshy petal, doubled over, flattened,
and closed, excepting a small opening on one edge, where the stamens protrude.
Only minute insects can find access to the flower, which secretes at the base a
honey-like fluid. Two long-billed humming-birds frequent it; one (Heliomaster
pallidiceps, Gould), which I have already mentioned, is rather rare; the other
(Phaethornis longirostris, De Latt.) might be seen at any time when the tree was
in bloom, by watching near it for a few minutes.'
Since Belt's classical description and the unfortunately very short
Fig. 6i. Marcgravia umbellata. Inflorescence adapted for pollination
by humming-birds. Natural size. After Flora Brasiliensis.
