122 THE FACTORS [Part I
communications of F. Muller, the knowledge of humming-bird flowers
has not made any considerable progress, for the surmises of several
biologists formed far away from the home of humming-birds cannot be
considered as such. The share taken by humming-birds in causing the
peculiarities of many American flowers can be ascertained only by careful
and critical investigations on the spot. Undoubtedly these brilliantly
coloured pollinators show a preference for red, especially for fiery red
colours ; in regions where humming-birds abound, for instance the
Antilles, I have rarely seen a woody plant resplendent in the sun with
the beauty of its red flowers without also being able to detect, with a
little patience, humming-birds on it. I vividly remember having seen, in
Trinidad, Norantea guianensis resplendent with scarlet nectaries and with
humming-birds swarming round it. I have even observed these visitors
on the peculiar, large, deep carmine flowers of Couroupita guianensis.
In the garden of a house on the coast of Massachusetts, where I lived
in the summer, every day I could see the single indigenous species of
humming-bird (Trochilus colubris) frequenting the deep carmine flowers
of a shrub of Weigela. This preference for red does not, however,
exclude visits to flowers that are differently coloured ; for the flowers
of the species of Marcgravia that I know are of a dull brownish
colour,
Kerner endeavours to establish an essential connexion between, on the one
hand, the wealth of the American flora in plants with red blossoms, and on the
other, the presence of humming-birds. But what is the nature of this wealth ?
Certainly an uninitiated person landing at a tropical American port and seeing
the " Flame of the Forest " (Poinciana regia) in a blaze of blossom would, after
a well-known example, be inclined to conclude that in tropical America the
trees have red flowers. But this most brilliant of all red-flowered trees is of
East Indian origin, as are many other plants which make a scarlet display of
flowers and are commonly cultivated in warm countries as ornamental plants
I did not receive the impression that the red colour is more prominent in the
American than in the Malayan flora.
Since sun-birds, which live in the greatest part of Africa, in tropical Asia, and
in Australia, have also proved to be flower-pollinators and have a similar preference
for red tints, the question at any rate may be asked, whether the actually greater
wealth in bright red flowers and bracts, that distinguishes the warm zone from
the north temperate zone, is connected with ornithophily. To the flowers that
are so distinguished belong, in America, among others, those of numerous
Bromeliaceae, especially species of Aechmea and Vriesea ; in the Malay Archipelago,
the Zingiberaceae. I have never seen any birds close to these flowers. The
Bromeliaceae with coloured bracts, so far as I have seen them in their native
habitats, live only in shady places, where the sun-loving humming-birds are
seldom seen, and the Malayan Zingiberaceae do not appear outside the deepest
forest shade, where sun-birds would be sought for in vain.
