Chap. VI] ANIMALS 123
A role quite similar to that of humming-birds in the New World is
played by the Nectariniidae, or sun-birds, in the warm zone of the Old
World, but only in tropical and Southern Africa do they appear in
a comparable number of species and individuals. The relations of sun-
birds to flowers were investigated in South Africa by Scott-Elliot, whose
excellent works have first opened out for us a closer insight into the
structure of ornithophilous flowers. The South African sun-birds, accord-
ing to Scott-Elliot, are excellent pollinators, since they, like bees, confine
themselves to the flowers of one species.
Nectarinia chalybea, N. bicollaris, and Promerops caper are the most important
species near Cape Town ; Promerops Gurneyi replaces P. caper in the eastern
part of Cape Colony and in Natal ; Nectarinia famosa lives from December till
April in the Karroo, at other times in the districts of Knysna and East
London.
Like humming-birds, the South African sun-birds also show a preference
for red flowers, and indeed a certain red tint, which appears in the
breast feathers of several species of these birds, also characterizes
several ornithophilous flowers. Labiates, species of Aloe, Irideae, and
Leguminosae assume this otherwise rare floral tint, when they are adapted
to pollination by sun-birds. Characteristic features of the ornithophilous
flowers of South Africa are also, in many cases, a brushlike polyandrous
androecium and a protruding style. Similar features are observable also
in humming-bird flowers, for example in those of Marcgraviaceae and
of Couroupita.
To ornithophilous flowers moreover belong many species of Protea,
whose large capitulate inflorescences are surrounded by rigid bracts at
the base of which the honey accumulates ; the birds sit on the edge
of the cups and rub the protruding style that is covered with pollen
(Fig. 62). Many of the Cape species of Erica are also adapted for
pollination by birds, as well as many Leguminosae, such as Erythrina
caffra, which possibly has no other visitors than sun-birds. The banana
in Natal, and Ravenala madagascariensis in its native home, are mainly,
but not exclusively, ornithophilous.
The most remarkable of the South African ornithophilous floral
mechanisms occurs in Strelitzia reginae (Fig. 63), which is frequently
cultivated in our greenhouses. Its three external perianth-leaves are
of a bright orange colour ; of the three inner ones, one is differentiated
as a large azure-blue arrow-shaped labellum, while the two others are
small and form an archway over the entrance to the nectar-cavity.
A groove traced along the labellum encloses the stamens and the style,
the tip of which, with the stigma, projects freely. The bird hovers near
the edge of the labellum and sucks the nectar which is under the archway,
