Chap. VI]
ANIMALS
127
The high regions of the Alps are indeed poorer in insects than the
surrounding lowlands ; yet, as Hermann Miiller has shown, flowers are
not less frequently visited by insects there than in the plains. More
important than the reduced total number of insects is the quite altered
numerical relation among the different groups. Thus, according to
Hermann Miiller, Apidae, except humble-bees, fall off rapidly in numbers
as the altitude increases. Lepidoptera, on the contrary, show a consider-
able increase. Accordingly bee-flowers decrease and lepidopteron-flowers
increase. The latter, according to Loew, number in the Alps 53 species,
but only 36 in the Westphalian lowlands.
Many genera are represented in the plains by bee-flowers, in the Alps
by lepidopteron-flowers ; for example, Gentiana, Rhinanthus, Viola. One
and the same species may even
exhibit corresponding variations. The
flowers of Viola tricolor (Fig. 65, 2)
are short-spurred in the plains, corre-
sponding to the short proboscis of
the bees, their pollinators ; the variety
alpestris is long-spurred, corresponding
to the long proboscis of Lepidoptera.
The purely alpine Viola calcarata
has long-spurred lepidopteron-flowers
(Fig. 6,5, 1). Primula farinosa, accord-
ing to Hermann Miiller, has in the
plains, where its pollinators are bees,
a considerably wider entrance to its
flower than it has on alpine heights,
where it is practically visited by
Lepidoptera only.
The Pyrenees are poorer in Lepi-
doptera than are the Alps, but on the other hand are richer in insects
that have not produced through natural selection definite forms of flowers ;
lepidopteron-flowers are accordingly feebly represented (MacLeod).
The Norwegian plateau is poor in insects owing to the shortness and
wetness of the summer ; adaptations for cross-pollination have therefore
undergone a considerable reduction.
Of the 76 alpine and arctic species of the Dovrefjeld, according to a compila-
tion by Loew, there are 2 anemophilous species (Oxyria digyna and Thalictrum
alpinum), whilst the 74 entomophilous species exhibit the following arrangements :
self-pollination is invariably or usually prevented in 12 species = 16-2 % ; self-
pollination as well as cross-pollination occurs in 40 species = 54 % ; self-pollination
is regular or easily accomplished in 22 species = 297 %. In comparison with the
Alps of Central Europe the alpine plants of Norway show a distinct falling off
Fig. 65. 1. Viola calcarata. Lepidopteron-
flower ; long-spurred. 2. Viola tricolor. Bee-
flower ; short-spurred. Natural size.
