128 THE FACTORS [Part I
in allogamous flower-mechanisms (about 10 %), as well as a much more consider-
able increase in autogamy (about 15 %).
The conditions of pollination in extreme arctic countries have been
investigated in Greenland by Warming. Insect-visits appeared to be
very rare. Anemophily and autogamy are correspondingly strongly,
and entomophily is weakly developed. Many flowers that are markedly
entomophilous elsewhere show a strong tendency to self-pollination ; for
example, those of Mertensia maritima, the flowers of which are smaller
in Greenland than in Scandinavia, of Azalea procumbens, Vaccinium
Vitis-Idaea var. pumila, Bartsia alpina, Thymus Serpyllum, Menyanthes
trifoliata, Pyrola grandiflora. In spite of the scarcity of insects, the
allurements are not more strongly marked than when a rich insect
fauna exists, although this is contrary to an opinion that has been
repeatedly expressed.
Vegetative multiplication is strongly developed in Greenland, especially in
plants in which self-pollination takes place with difficulty or to a slight extent :
' In Greenland, which is poor in insects, the more entomophilous a species may
be, the more it adapts itself to multiplication by vegetative means, whereas
autogamous plants can dispense with this kind of propagation, and actually do
dispense with it ' (Warming).
The conditions of pollination have often been cited in explanation of
the peculiarities of insular floras. Wallace, especially, has tried to connect
the presence, absence, or rarity of brightly coloured flowers on islands
with the fauna. Thus on the islands of the eastern part of the South
Pacific Ocean, for example in Tahiti, insects, especially Lepidoptera and
bees, are rare : to this circumstance the poverty of the local flora in
entomophilous flowers, especially in brightly coloured ones, and the
prevalence of ferns have been ascribed. On the western islands, for
example in Fiji, butterflies are more numerous and have produced
through selection a greater number of brightly coloured flowers. The
flowers of the Galapagos have such inconspicuous flowers, that Darwin
could only after a long time convince himself that they nearly all
blossomed during his visit. As a matter of fact small Diptera and
Hymenoptera are the only representatives of the insect-world on these
islands.
Such tentative explanations are certainly interesting and suggestive ; but
yet it need hardly be stated, that the above peculiarities are explicable, not
merely by the conditions of pollination, but by taking into consideration
also historical and climatic factors. Moreover, Wallace's views chiefly
rest on the incomplete information and collections of other biologists
whose investigations scarcely lay in this direction, and they have already
been refuted in many very important cases. Thus Wallace has described
