134 THE FACTORS [Part I
as much as possible unchanged, will without doubt in numerous cases
prove the connexion between the occurrence of certain definite forms of
insects and the flowers specially adapted to them. Interesting in this
respect is the fact, established by Ridley, that species of Bulbophyllum
near Singapore are adapted for pollination by a certain fly with a very
specialized taste, and that, of the orchids that are not indigenous, only
Dendrobium superbum is visited by this fly.
2. PLANTS AND ANTS.
Ants in the temperate zones play an unimportant part in the economy
of nature, but in the tropics a leading part. They are the most numerous
and the most industrious representatives of the tropical insect-world.
They abound everywhere. Untiring in their search for food, and usually
quite fearless, they are ever ready for attack, in which they employ
either their sharp jaws or poisonous stings. In the eastern part of
the tropics they do but little harm to vegetation, for, as in temperate
countries, they are for the most part satisfied with the dead parts of
plants or with sweet exudations from the nectaries on leaves, to which
subject further reference will be made. In tropical America, however,
the so-called leaf-cutters, or parasol-ants, of the genus Atta may be
reckoned as the most dangerous foes to vegetation.
i. ANTS AS CULTIVATORS OF FUNGI.
The foraging expeditions of parasol-ants in tropical America are
well known to every traveller, and have frequently been described.
Straight across the forest path moves a green stream — travelling pieces
of leaf, each as big as a farthing and borne upright on the head of an
ant. In some species, large-headed soldiers without any load accompany
the procession. The pieces of leaf come from a plant on which the
bold little creatures may be easily observed at work. A piece is cut
from the margin of a leaf, in a few minutes, by their shear-like mandibles
and placed on their heads by a kind of jerking movement. Thus laden,
the ant follows the homebound troops (Figs. 70-72).
The attacked plant is frequently, though not always, abandoned only
after all the foliage, except the hard ribs and petioles, has been carried
away. It is remarkable that parasol-ants so frequently bring their booty
from a great distance, although suitable plants are near at hand ; Belt
frequently found them engaged half a mile from their nest. This was
probably due to the fact that, as Alf. Moller proved, they reject and
select the same species of plant in turns ; a fact that seems explicable
only upon the assumption that it relates to the preparation of a certain
mixture or to the replacing of components of a mixture that have become
