Chap. VI]
ANIMALS
137
Thus prepared, the now shapeless little masses are worked up into a.
coarsely porous spongy mass which fills the interior of the nest and
forms the fungus-garden (Fig. 73). The little masses, the initial green
colour of which changes first to bluish-black and finally to yellowish-
brown, are traversed in all directions and bound together by fine mycelial
threads. On closer inspection, innumerable little white bodies, at the
most -5 mm. in diameter, may also be seen ; they spring laterally from
the mycelial threads and are termed by Moller 'kohlrabi-clumps' (Fig.
74). They consist of an agglomeration of short branches with node-
like or globular swollen ends and very rich protoplasmic contents. The
1 kohlrabi-clumps ' arc the most important if not the sole food of the ants,
and represent a new structure, which has arisen as a result of artificial
selection exercised by the ants.
The ' kohlrabi-clumps ' appear very early in the fresh masses and
then disappear, when these assume a brown colour. Alf. Moller has,
by ingenious experiments, revealed
the whole workings of the ants in
their fungus-gardens, and has shown
how the tiniest female workers keep
off all foreign organisms, so that
without further trouble the little
masses can be used for pure cul-
tures, and how the ants, by indus-
triously biting off the subaerial
threads, prevent the vegetative
sprouting which will be described
further on. He has also directly
observed, in numerous cases, the
actual eating of the ' kohlrabi-
clumps' and has proved that in their absence the ants die of starvation.
The fungus, as a rule, remains in the purely vegetative condition
that has just been described. Only exceptionally, and under unknown
conditions, do large pileate sporophores of a purely agaric type develop
from the mycelium and crown the top of the ants' nest, a feature that
is all the more striking because large pileate fungi are rare in tropical
rain-forests. Such discoveries have made it possible for Alf. Moller to
determine exactly the systematic position of the fungus, and to describe
it as a new species of the genus Rozites, R. gongylophora, Moll.
The four species of Atta that occur near Blumenau cultivate the same
species of fungus, which is never found outside the ants' nests. We have
therefore here a highly developed case of reciprocal adaptation between
unlike organisms.
The removal of the ants from the fungus-garden results, after a few
Fig. 74. 'Kohlrabi-clumps' of Rozites gongy-
lophora, Moll., the fungus of the South Brazilian
species of Atta. Magnified 150. After Alf. Moller.
