138 THE FACTORS [Part I
days, in the appearance of a very rich subaerial mycelium, on which two
kinds of conidia are produced. This luxuriant growth occasions not
only the rapid exhaustion of the substratum, but also the emptying of
the ' kohlrabi-clumps ' or the cessation of their production.
Moller was able, in cultures in nutritive solutions, to induce the fungus
to form 'kohlrabi-clumps,' which were identical with those in the fungus-
gardens and were eaten just as greedily by the ants. These peculiar
structures are therefore by no means ant-galls, but a product of cultivation
comparable with kohlrabi. The phylogenetic starting-point of their evolu-
tion is to be sought in the tendency of the fungus to produce all kinds
of swellings.
The parasol-ants are not the only species that cultivate fungi. Frau
Brockes, one of the daughters of Fritz M tiller, discovered the same custom
in another genus of ant, Apterostigma, near Blumenau, and Alf. Moller
has minutely investigated the fungus-gardens of the remarkably hairy
little species of this genus, which are therefore termed hairy ants. They
belong to four different species : Apterostigma Molleri, Forel, A. pilosum,
Mayr, A. Wasmanni, Forel, and another species not yet described and
here referred to as A. IV. They live in much smaller communities than
do the species of Atta, and construct correspondingly smaller gardens,
for which purpose they chiefly employ wood-dust, produced by the
activity of insect-larvae, and the excrements of the latter.
Finally, Moller also recognized the liump-backed ants — species of the
genus Cyphomyrmex (C. auritus, Mayr, and C. strigatus, Mayr) — as
fungus-cultivators. Their fungus-gardens resemble those of the hairy
ants.
The fungi of the gardens of the hairy and the hump-backed ants differ
specifically from one another as well as from those of the species of
Atta, but the different species of each genus of ant cultivate the same
species of fungus. The fungus of Apterostigma and of Cyphomyrmex, like
that of Atta, produces kohlrabi, but of a somewhat different structure, and,
after the ants are removed, also produces a luxuriant subaerial mycelium
from which conidia are abstricted. Unfortunately the highest form of
sporophore has not been observed, so that the systematic position of
the fungi associated with the hairy and hump-backed ants is not yet
precisely determined, but they undoubtedly belong to the Basidiomy-
cetes and probably to the Agaricinae. The ' kohlrabi-clumps ' of the
different species of ants are highly instructive, as they represent structures
that have remained at different stages of selective evolution. The species
of Atta have elaborated the most highly developed product (Fig. 74).
Somewhat less developed are the 'kohlrabi-clumps' of Apterostigma
Wasmanni, as the apices of the individual kohlrabi-hyphae assume not
a globular, but a swollen clublike form, and are arranged in less definite
