Chap. I] THE FORMATIONS 161
type, the characteristics of which are exactly repeated on the same
kinds of soil so long as the climate is unchanged, whereas the different
kinds of soil bear different kinds of plants. The communities of plants
as determined by the qualities of the soil are termed formations.
In each formation one species of plant, or a group of species, is
characteristic ; plants that merely occur sporadically are unessential to
the formation, and commoner subsidiary constituents can only give a
different facies to the formation. Thus, in Europe, we are acquainted
with the formation of the beech-forest, where Fagus sylvatica predominates,
and with at least two facies of dissimilar herbaceous vegetation ! . If
the composition of the vegetation should alter while the nature of the
soil remains unchanged, this is a certain indication of transition into
another climate. A sudden change of formations while the quality of
the soil remains unaltered is only found in mountain ranges in relation
to the sudden change in climate.
Whilst every formation is in its fioristic and oecological character
a product of climate and soil, yet the influence of the several climatic
and edaphic factors is not equal. The influence of the soil is always
subordinate to that of the climatic temperature, whereas under certain
conditions that are indeed merely local it neutralizes that of the
atmospheric precipitation. Thus woods occur in many spots where the
climate would give rise to grassland, or we may find the converse, and
vigorous forest thrives in patches under a desert climate with a very
scanty atmospheric precipitation. Definite properties of the soil may
also bring forth a character of vegetation that belongs to none of the
climatic types. These climatic types demand a favourable constitution
of the soil congenial to the vast majority of the plants. Extreme
properties of the soil that are unfavourable to the life of most plants
set vegetation free from the controlling influence of atmospheric pre-
cipitation. Consequently the vegetation of rocks, gravel, swamps, and
other special spots, bears in the highest degree the oecological impress
of the substratum, and this impress for the most part remains identical
under very dissimilar conditions of climatic humidity, which on such
soils plays only a subordinate part.
From what has preceded it appears that two oecological groups of
formations should be distinguished — the climatic or district formations,
the character of whose vegetation is governed by atmospheric precipitations,
and the edaphic or local formations, whose vegetation is chiefly determined
by the nature of the soil.
1 See p. in.
M
