162 FORMATIONS AND GUILDS [Part I
2. THE CLIMATIC FORMATIONS.
i. CLASSIFICATION.
Climatic formations may be traced back to three chief types — woodland,
grassland, and desert.
Woodland is constituted essentially of woody plants, and is termed
forest if trees grow in a closed condition ; bushwood, when shrubs are so
abundant as to keep the crowns of the trees from touching one another ;
sJiritbivood, where shrubs constitute the chief feature. Herbaceous plants
are always present on woodlands, but as accessory components only ;
they are completely dominated in their oecology by woody plants.
Grassland consists essentially of perennial grasses growing in tufts.
Other herbaceous plants, even if they should be just as numerous as
the grasses, are merely companions of the grasses, for the existence of
the formation depends in the first place on its grassy covering. Grass-
land, when hygrophilous or tropophilous, is termed meadow ; when xero-
philous, steppe ; and xerophilous grassland containing isolated trees is
savannah.
Woodland and grassland stand opposed to one another like two equally
powerful but hostile nations, which in the course of time have repeatedly
fought against one another for the dominion over the soil. The climates
that now prevail have limited the domains of each of the opponents,
but merely slight changes of climate would suffice to revive the contest.
In districts which, in a sense to be explained further on, possess neither
a decided woodland climate nor a decided grassland climate, the action
of mankind suffices to start the struggle. Thus at the present time,
owing to the clearance of forests in Eastern Java and a few other localities
in the Malayan Archipelago, districts formerly occupied by woodland
are being invaded by grass. Although I have personally witnessed this
contest, yet I will give an account of it in the words of Junghuhn, the
veteran authority on Malayan vegetation, for it is hardly possible to
equal his clearness.
When the soil remains uncultivated after clearing the forest, 'as
a rule the social and dense-growing alang-grass (Imperata Koenigii,
Beauv.) first replaces the vanished forests, then areas extending for miles,
even indeed for whole days' journeys, are transformed into a uniform
wilderness of dense grass three to five feet high, while on mountain-
slopes the same grass extends far beyond its original zone, and spreading
over everything it ranges up to altitudes of 6,000-7.000 feet, being almost
insensible to differences of temperature.
' Its silken-haired seeds, light as the tenderest down, are wafted away
