Chap. I] THE FORMATIONS 163
in millions by the slightest breath of wind and greatly facilitate its
general distribution, whilst its creeping and deeply penetrating roots
increase the difficulty of eradication when once this grass, so tenacious
of life, has established itself. I have reasons for believing that while
the land was in its original condition the alang-grass was restricted to
sundry sterile, arid, waterless tracts of the hot zone, and was chiefly
confined to heavy, hard, easily dried clay soil, with an iron-pan, but that
at the present time, wherever we meet this grass on a fertile light soil and
on mountain-slopes at above 2,000 feet, this state of affairs is first brought
about by the hand of man. ... In Northern Sumatra, especially in the
Batta country that has been devastated by war, grassy wastes have conse-
quently come into existence which cover everything far and wide with
a hideous uniformity and overrun plain, mountain, and valley with their
whitish-green mantle V
It is probable that, unless man should again intervene, the alang-
steppe will, in the course of time, again give way to the forest, for
climatic conditions are in every way more suited to forest than to grass-
land. In a decided forest climate, for example along the Brazilian coast,
forest quickly succeeds to devastated forest, although it is of a more
xerophilous character than before, being the so-called ' capoeira.'
Desert, the third leading type of climatic formation, originates when,
on account of too great drought or cold, climatic conditions are hostile
to all vegetation ; the types of both woodland and grassland then become
stunted and their differences become obliterated, for the struggle between
them ceases. The soil is then monopolized by such woody or herbaceous
plants as can still contend successfully against the inclemency of the
climate. Transition forms between desert on the one hand, and wood-
land or grassland on the other, are termed semi-deserts.
In the woodland and in the grassland such plants alone can thrive as
are at their oecological optimum in respect to all external factors, other-
wise they would perish in the struggle with stronger competitors. In
deserts this is no longer a necessary condition, as the struggle between
the plants ceases. Woodlands and grasslands are closed formations, at
least in an oecological sense ; more components cannot be admitted
into them and numerous seedlings are continually perishing in the general
conflict. The desert, on the contrary, is oecological ly an open formation.
Most seeds do not germinate in it, and seedlings frequently succumb to
the inclemency of the climate. Others prolong their miserable existence.
Many plants die and their places are not reoccupied. There are always
many vacant spaces to be filled in the desert 2 .
1 Junghuhn, op. cit.. Bd. I, p. 153.
- Very sparsely stocked stations in climatic districts suitable for woodland or grassland
must not be confounded with climatic deserts. See under Edaphic Formations, p. 176.
M 1
