i6'4 FORMATIONS AND GUILDS [Part II
To consider grassland, as is frequently done, as the sign of a 'bad
climate,' as an evidence of poverty in Nature, as a transition state between
forest and desert, is at best comprehensible from a forester's point of
view, but is neither scientifically nor practically justifiable. Indeed certain
forms of woodland are climatically more accommodating in their demands
than is grassland. Victory in the struggle between woodland and grass-
land belongs to the one of the two antagonists with which the given
climatic conditions best correspond.
Accurate knowledge of the demands made on the one hand by woody
plants, and on the other by grasses, in regard to atmospheric precipita-
tion, movements of the air, and heat, will yield us the elements of which
a woodland climate and a grassland 'climate are composed.
ii. WOODLAND CLIMATE.
Let us first consider the woody plant in its most complete development,
as a tree. In the tree the transpiring surface is at a greater distance
from the water-supply in the soil than it is in the shrub or herb ; besides
this, the strata of air surrounding that transpiring surface have properties
different to a certain extent from those nearer the soil ; finally, at least
in many cases, the transpiring surface of the tree is larger when compared
with the corresponding surface of the ground than it is in the shrub or
herb.
On the other hand, the tree has at its disposal a vast root-system,
which is capable of utilizing very deep-lying supplies of water, and upon
these it often mainly relies, as its root-tips for the most part lie at
a considerable depth below the surface of the ground.
Our present knowledge of the physiology of trees is in the main
derived from the Central European flora, the trees of which all transpire
freely although in an unequal degree, and are correspondingly highly
water-demanding and hygrophilous during the vegetative season. The
most comprehensive and useful investigations regarding the transpiration
of the forest trees of Central Europe have been carried out by R. von
Hohnel T , from whose works the following data are taken : —
The author experimented with seedling-trees 5-6 years old and 50-80 cm. high
which had been planted in ordinary garden-pots 16 cm. high and each containing
3^-5 kilograms of earth. The pots were surrounded by wide air-tight sheet-zinc
cases, made so that not only was it possible to water the plants while the pot
was kept completely enclosed, but also that the soil did not come into any
contact with the zinc. In this way all loss of water from the soil was excluded
and a correct determination of the amount of transpiration secured. The
experiment was also so arranged that the pots could not be exposed to the
1 Von Hohnel, op. cit.
