166 FORMATIONS AND GUILDS L Part n
season that is of importance to tree-growth, but it is the continuous presence
of a supply of water within reach of the extremities of the roots, and
therefore at a considerable depth in the soil. It is immaterial during
what season this supply is renewed. There arc forest districts with rain
at all seasons of the year and others with dry seasons. In districts with
dry seasons the rainy season may mainly or entirely coincide with the
vegetative season, as in the tropics or the interior of Argentina, or the
rainy season may coincide with a season that is relatively one of rest
for vegetation, as in extra-tropical districts with winter rain, including
Mediterranean countries, the South Caspian district, Chili, California,
South-west and South Australia.
The trees of a forest district with a dry vegetative season are
dependent on water-supplies, collected during winter, and occurring at
a considerable depth ; they have corresponding characteristics. Their
root-system penetrates deeply into the soil and is strongly developed,
the stem and roots are frequently furnished with apparatus for storing
water, the foliage is protected against rapid loss of water in hot dry air.
In districts without a markedly dry season, or where this is at the same
time a period of rest for tree-vegetation, the trees possess less perfect
absorptive and protective contrivances. The foliage is delicate and tran-
spires freely, the whole character is hygrophilous, but yet, in abnormally
dry seasons, even hygrophilous trees, like all deep-rooted plants as
opposed to shallow-rooted ones, show remarkable powers of resistance.
Thus during the rainless vegetative season of the year 1893, along the
Rhine and in Western Switzerland, meadow grass grew to a quite inconsider-
able height only, and most perennial herbs in the meadows completely dried
up before the end of June. Above the low straw-coloured sward of the
meadows, lucerne, sainfoin, and other deeply rooted perennial herbs stood
out as fresh, sap-green, luxuriant bushes. The foliage of trees only in July
became partially dry, and the fruit was as succulent as usual and grew to
its ordinary size. Considerable supplies of water provided by the winter
rain, therefore, still remained stored in the soil, though only accessible to
deeply rooted plants. Yet here we are dealing with a vegetation that
is hygrophilous during the summer and under normal conditions is not
exposed to drought associated with a high temperature.
Important observations regarding the significance of the amount of
rainfall and winter rain to the forest have been communicated by
Woeikof: —
' I will not deny the influence of summer rain on forests, as on all other kinds
of vegetation, but atmospheric precipitations falling in the cold season, especially
when they occur in the form of snow, are far more important. Forests require
a continuous supply of water in the stratum containing their roots, in order to
balance the continuous evaporation from the leaves. The colder the season is
