Chap. I] THE FORMATIONS 167
during which the precipitations occur, the finer these precipitations are and the
more regularly distributed, so much the more water penetrates into the deeper
strata of the soil, instead of running quickly over the ground and filling the
rivers. Still better for vegetation is a covering of snow. Whether it fall early
or late, the snow always melts in the spring, when vegetation requires most
water. The permanent snow-covering of winter is the chief cause of the
presence of forests in North Russia and Sweden, although the annual rainfall
is much less there than in Western Europe. In the south, in the steppes the
amount of snow that falls is much less, and even that which has fallen is blown
away by the strong winds and collects in hollows, whilst the ridges remain free
from snow V
' A proof that woody plants exist without summer rain is afforded by the
trees that are cultivated without artificial supplies of water in Southern Europe,
where during summer frequently not a drop of rain falls for months, and yet
even the vine bears plenty of fruit, and for this of course much water is needed.
On the south coast of the Crimea, for instance, the vine-growers set not the
slightest value on the summer rain ; it has no influence on the abundance of
the vintage, for it wets the soil too superficially. It is quite different with the
rains during late autumn and winter, which are plentiful enough to render the
soil thoroughly wet to the depth of a meter and to yield a supply for the whole
of the succeeding summer.
' Not only vine-growers but all persons engaged in agriculture or horticulture
know very well that frequent but light showers of rain do little or no good, and
that it is better if in the course of a month there are two rainy days with a
fortnight's interval between them, each giving 20 mm. of rainfall, than if the
same amount were to fall in fourteen days at the rate of 3 mm. on each rainy day :
since in the former case the soil is wetted to a greater depth, but in the latter
case the rain-water remains almost entirely in the uppermost stratum of the
soil, provided that drought prevailed before the rain fell 2 .'
'A consideration of the country near the Volga and the Eastern Caucasus has
convinced me of the close connexion between the cultivation of winter corn and
forest growth. In districts with a cold winter (below o° C.) a continuous snowy
covering is necessary, so that the soil in the spring may be completely permeated
with moisture ; summer rain cannot compensate for the absence of snow because
of the irregularity of its occurrence and the great amount of rain that falls at
one time and forthwith runs off without benefiting the soil.
' In more southern districts regular winter rains are necessary in order to
render the cultivation of winter fruits possible. If the rainfall is scanty, cereals
will grow and yield a safe harvest, but forests cannot exist. This, for instance,
we see on the peninsula of Apsheron. There winter wheat is everywhere
sown ; it yields unsatisfactory but safe harvests, for wheat requires moisture
only in the uppermost stratum of the soil. If the atmospheric precipitations in
autumn and winter are more plentiful, forest vegetation can also thrive. This, for
instance, we see at Leukoran. Somewhat to the north of the town are some
colonies of Russian sectaries, who sow winter wheat and barley exclusively.
1 Woeikof, I, p. 243. 2 Id. II, Bd. II, p. 255.
