i68 FORMATIONS AND GUILDS [Part II
The yield is excellent, but summer fruits cannot be cultivated ; the soil dries up
so completely even in May that it is impossible for the plants to flower. In this
district there are forests with large, tall-stemmed trees. The supply of water
that is collected in winter suffices to cover the evaporation during summer 1 .'
The greater the amount of water in the soil, whether it is derived from
rain or from percolating water telluric in origin, the greater in general is
the height of the trees and the richer their foliage. However, the tallest
known trees, such as the Sequoia of California and the Eucalyptus of
Australia, are not inhabitants of a specially moist soil ; here specific
characters are largely involved. With a decreasing supply of water in
the soil, the height of trees and the surface of their foliage generally
diminish, yet many lofty trees are still found on dry soil, for examp e
in tropical savannahs. The driest districts possess only stunted trees.
Tree-growth is entirely prevented only by such a degree of drought as
excludes all kinds of plants with the exception of the loiver cryptogams.
The amount of water necessary for the well-being of hygrophilous
trees obviously increases with the temperature. In the temperate zones,
hygrophilous trees 2 thrive with a rainfall that in the tropics would satisfy
only xerophilous trees. This matter is considered more in detail under
the special climatic headings dealing with the individual zones. Here
however it may be mentioned, that in the tropics — with the obvious
exception of the banks of sheets of water — hygrophilous trees require an
annual rainfall of at least 150 cm., whereas in the cool regions of the tem-
perate zones 60 cm. are sufficient. The occurrence of lofty xerophilous
trees depends less on the amount of rain than on specific characteristics.
Another important factor in relation to the growth is the amount of
aqneons vapour in the atmosphere, in which of course it is not the absolute
but the relative vapour tension that is of significance. In this respect
trees are less favourably situated than plants of less height, for their
transpiring surfaces arc situated in higher and therefore drier and more
agitated strata of the atmosphere. The larger hygrophilous trees, when
in leaf, require an average relative humidity of about 80 °/ o , descending
to 6o°/ o for a few hours only during the clay. Less atmospheric humidity
suffices for xerophilous trees, and some species, even when in leaf, appear
able to endure without injury a relative humidity of 30°/ , lasting for some
time.
As has been explained in an earlier chapter 3 , it is of the greatest
importance in relation to tree-grozvth whether the surrounding atmospheric
strata arc usually at rest or in motion, as the wind causes a vast increase
in transpiration. Dry winds during frosty weather determine the polar
limit of the grozvth of trees. Before the final proof of the fact was
Woeikof, I, p. 243. 2 Trees hygrophilous in the vegetative season.
a See p. 77.
