Chai\ I] THE FORMATIONS 171
fatal level. As the juniper has absolutely no power of emitting suckers from its
roots or even supplementary shoots from the base of the stem, there results a
low tabular little tree, whose dense umbrella-shaped crown attains a diameter
of 3-4 meters, and whose central cylindrical stem at an age of 300-400 years
may have a diameter of more than thirty centimeters. The height of the whole
plant is, on the average, about 1 meter, but may occasionally reach nearly
2 meters. ... If the little stem, which is in great request as firewood,
should remain standing long enough, there comes, sooner or later, a moment
when the adherence of the roots to the soil can no longer resist the increasing
pressure upon the crown by the wind ; the little tree falls over and is obliquely
held up by the half of its crown that is now turned downwards, whilst its
upper half quickly dies off and disappears along the critical line.
' The line above which all twigs perish is defined by the average height of
the snow-covering at the commencement of the thaw. ... In April, 1889,
I was able to satisfy myself that the living juniper branches reached close up to
the surface of the melting snow, or that at the most they projected a few
centimeters above it. I have convinced myself that the juniper in Russian
Lapland can withstand the winter only if for several months it is completely
covered with snow 1 . . . . The birch also assumes the form of tabular or
closely cropped bushes, which are quite characteristic of the tundra landscape,
in accordance with the wide distribution of this tree beyond the limit of forests V
Finally, as an extreme case, Kihlman mentions the formation of mats, ' that
merely reach the height of the surrounding felt of lichens or undershrubs, but
which occasionally attain quite considerable dimensions in the horizontal plane.
. . . The shallow-rooted spruce assumes this form most successfully (Fig. 92) ;
along the tundra belt near Orlova I saw mat-like spruces from one to five
meters long, the thin sterile twigs of which had crept about in the felt of lichens
and evidently all sprang from one seedling plant. ... In all these mats one
finds that the one-year-old shoots, in so far as they project above the level of the
surrounding tufts of moss and lichens, are dried up and defoliated V
As will be shown in a later chapter 4 , the conditions in regard to the
movements of the air also determine the vertical limit of forest vegetation.
It appears to be advisable to group together shrubs and divarf-trees as
brushwood.
The existence of brushwood also is determined by the amount of water
in the soil, and the season when the water is renewed is a matter of in-
difference. The amount of water necessary for the well-being of brush-
wood is less than that for tree-growth ; when it increases, tree-growth
appears. Like forest, brushwood thrives better in damp than in dry
air, and better in calm than in agitated air ; in both respects, however,
it is more accommodating than is tree-vegetation.
A good woodland climate is, tJien, composed of the folloiving elements : —
1 Kihlman, op. cit., p. 71. 2 Id. p. "]?,.
3 Id. p. 68. 4 In Part III, Sect. IV.
