174 FORMATIONS AND GUILDS [Part II
atmospheric precipitations are necessary. During the resting season
grasses can endure great drought without injury.
Grasses do not rise so high above the surface of the ground as do
trees and consequently occupy damper atmospheric strata. Very dry
air. then, does them as little injury during the resting period as does
the lack of rain. The lowest atmospheric strata are also the calmest,
so that grasses suffer less than woody plants from the drying action of
the wind. Winds that prevail during the dry seasons or during the
winter, and that are so injurious to trees, are devoid of significance in
relation to grasses.
A good grassland climate is then composed of the following elements: —
frequent, even if weak, atmospheric precipitations during the vegetative
season, so that the superficial soil is kept in a moist condition, and
further a moderate degree of heat during the same period.
Almost immaterial for grassland arc the following'. — Moisture in the
subsoil (except when the superficial soil has a great power of capillary
conduction), dryness of the air especially during resting periods (dry
season, winter), and winds.
Hostile to grassland in the higher latitudes is drought in the chief
vegetative season of grasses (spring, early summer).
A woodland climate leads to victory on the part of the woodland, a
grassland climate to victory on the part of the grassland. In transitional
climates cdapliic influences decide the victory. Strong deviations from a
woodland or grassland climate produce desert.
That the interior of continents, especially outside the tropics, affords
poorer tree-vegetation than districts near the coast, is due in the first
place to the great dryness of the air that prevails there during certain
seasons and especially in winter. Middendorff adduces evidence of the
unfavourable influence of a continental climate : —
' At the same latitude, 58 N., in which at Yeniseisk I plunged into the forests
of Siberia, at Sitka conifers that are so closely allied to the Siberian ones as
to be distinguished from them specifically only by specialists, attain a height of
160 feet with 7-10 feet diameter. . . . From Yeniseisk going northwards, according to
eye-measurements taken in Livland, one could hardly ascribe to the forests an
age of more than a half-century, certainly not a century 1 . . . . Also beyond the
limits of the frozen soil, under the most favourable conditions, in Southern Siberia,
the species of trees growing there attain no considerable dimensions, never those
that they or their representatives attain in Europe 2 . ... At least 99% of all
apparently mature trees in the forest, even in the favourable localities of Southern
Siberia, were not more than 1 foot to \\ feet in diameter. Three or four centuries
appear, even in Southern Siberia, to be the extreme age-limit to which the better
trees in the forest attain on the average. The average life of the trees of a Siberian
1 Middendorff, op. cit. p. 631. 2 Id. p. 632.
