AN APPRECIATION xi
have mastered all the methods of crystallographic investigation,
especially the optical methods which are all-important. He was
able to extend considerably the investigations of Nageli and others
upon the form and nature of " crystalloids," and particularly to
stud)- the change of form which they undergo in swelling. I think
that his remains the standard work on these substances. The
crystallographic bearing of the work was published by him in
a separate paper. I think he was the first to suggest and to give
some ground for believing that some of the " crystalloids " may be
isomorphous, e. g. the artificially prepared Mg-, Ba-, and Ca- com-
pounds, which appear to have a similar composition and nearly
the same form.'
Schimper's botanical contributions include work of first-class
importance in three branches of the subject — histology, oecology,
and geographical distribution of plants, as well as some suggestive
papers on a fourth branch — physiology.
Unsurpassed by any histological work of our time was that
of Schimper on chromatophores. The first of a series of papers
was published in 1880 on 'Starch-producing granules,' in which
it was shown that starch arises, not in the general cytoplasm, but
in two kinds of homologous protoplasmic bodies, chloroplasts and
leucoplasts. Three later papers, issued in 1882, 1883, 1885, upon
chromatophores proved the existence of a third form of proto-
plasm, chromatophore-protoplasm, as distinct from cytoplasm and
nucleus as these are from one another. As Schimper's views
are still held by the majority of botanists, it may be said that
he revolutionized our ideas as to the constitution of vegetable-
protoplasm and as to the unit of plant-life.
In the meanwhile Schimper had also fundamentally modified
botanists' views as to the nature and growth of starch-grains, by
his publication in 1881 of a paper upon the growth of these
bodies. The nature of the change may be gleaned by the
following quotation from an article written by Schimper in the
American Naturalist (1881) : — ' Nageli and, after him, most bio-
logists hold that starch-grains agree with protoplasm as to their
molecular structure, and are to be considered as living bodies.'
This paper, in demonstrating the growth of starch-grains by
apposition, dealt Nageli's theory of the growth of cell-walls and
