Chap. I]
THE FORMATIONS
J 75
timber-forest I must estimate much lower l . ... If we glance over the results
obtained in the above paragraphs, we cannot help expressing the opinion that
an extreme continental climate is unfavourable to tree-growth, iv/iic/i can only attain
its maximum development in a maritime climate 2 .'
The woodland-climate in its various gradations and the grassland-
climate remain qualitatively the same in all the zones, but differ
quantitatively from one another, so that their elements can be expressed
numerically only for each zone treated separately. The meteorological
tables on which the opinions here developed are based are therefore
relegated to a later part of this book 3 .
iv. METEOROLOGICAL TABLES.
The number of districts for which really useful and complete meteoro-
logical observations, extending over prolonged periods, are available, is
not yet considerable. Yet in reference to several regions, that are well
characterized both as regards their climate and vegetation, there are
already data which are sufficient in both these respects as a foundation for
general conclusions. Meteorologists do not always take into consideration
all the factors that concern the climatic knowledge of vegetation ; though
this is partly the fault of geographical botanists, who formerly made
very modest demands on meteorology owing to their misapprehension
as to the significance of many climatic elements.
A Table really fit for use from a phytogeographical standpoint should, in my
opinion, contain the following headings: —
Longitude
stations) . .
Latitude
LOCALITY ,
. . ; Altitude
Mean Barometric pressure (only at high
Temperature.
Months.
Rainfall.
Amount. Days.
Relative
humidity.
Sunshine.
Hours.
Strength
of wind.
Evapora-
tion.
Mean Mean Amount. Days. Mean Mean
Min. Max. Min. Max.
Jan. .
Feb.
Mar.
&c.
Mean annual extremes
The variations in the atmospheric pressure carefully noted by meteorologists
are devoid of significance to vegetation. Of the data regarding temperature,
those of the daily minima and maxima are the most important, in fact quite
sufficient. Records of the hours of observation are hardly necessary, since the
minima occur at night and the maxima during daytime. The former give us the
temperatures at which the processes of growth chiefly occur, the maxima are
especially important as factors influencing transpiration. The mean diurnal
1 Middendorff, op. cit., p. 632.
Id. p. 640.
See Part, III.
