176 FORMATIONS AND GUILDS [Part II
temperature is worthless in geographical botany, unless at least the amplitude of
the daily variation is also given. Mean annual extremes are important, not
indeed for the study of formations, but sometimes for the range of species ; the
mean annual temperature is quite unimportant.
Data regarding the absolute rainfall are very useful, but not sufficient when
taken alone. Much depends on the fact whether the rain falls in relatively rare
but heavy showers, or in frequent and light ones. Of this we are informed
under the headings 'Rainfall in Da} r s ' ('Rainfall in Hours' would also be useful, but
this is hardly ever given) and ' Hours of Sunshine.' The last are also among the
factors influencing transpiration.
Among the most important headings is ' Relative Humidity.' High atmospheric
humidity promotes growth and depresses transpiration ; low humidity acts in the
opposite direction.
To winds great importance is attached owing to their desiccating action. The
heading ' Evaporation ' facilitates direct conclusions as to the strength of trans-
piration.
3. THE EDAPHIC FORMATIONS.
i. EDAPHIC INFLUENCES IN GENERAL.
The influence of differences in the physical and chemical nature of
the soil is generally confined, as has been previously stated, to the
finer differentiations within the type of vegetation and of flora which
the climate determines. This edaphic differentiation is often extremely
rich, as many species correspond so exactly to a constellation of external
factors, that even slight changes in the latter remove the plants from
their oecological optimum and consequently cause their downfall in the
struggle with their competitors.
Suppose for instance that we consider a meadow having a somewhat
uneven surface. Many of the predominant species especially among the
grasses are present everywhere, so that such a meadow may be described
as a single formation. Other species, on the contrary, appear confined
to quite definite kinds of soil, so that the meadow presents a chequered
appearance. This is especially the case where two or more allied species
have to divide the soil between them. If, for instance, Primula officinalis
and P. elatior are present, we can from a distance distinguish by means
of the dissimilar tints of the flowers the drier spots occupied by the
former, from the damper spots where the latter grows. We shall never
find them growing side by side. In a similar way, Ranunculus bulbosus,
R. acris, and R. repens frequently denote three grades of increasing
humidity. On the Simplon, two species of dwarf Senecio, S. incanus
and S. uniflorus, frequent the dry alpine meadows, often close together,
but never intermixed. I found the large-headed Senecio uniflorus only
in places where the meadow-soil extended in a thin coating over stones
