xii A. F. VV. SCHIMPER
starch-grains exclusively by intussusception a staggering blow from
which it never recovered.
Schimper issued only three purely physiological papers, all
devoted in the main to metabolic processes in green leaves, and
in particular to the manufacture and conduction of carbohydrates
and the assimilation of salts in leaves. Though they contained
a number of new facts and ideas, and were admirable models of
method, they belonged not to the same rank as the histological
work on chromatophores, or as the oecological work.
It was in his oecological work that Schimper revealed him-
self a true genius. Before he commenced this, oecology, so far
as the vegetative organs were concerned, could scarcely be said
to exist as a science. True it is that Darwin had shed light
upon the oecology of climbing and carnivorous plants ; that
plants living in deserts or dry spots were recognized as adapted
to resist desiccation ; that anatomical and morphological investiga-
tion had been made upon selected parasites, saprophytes, aquatic
plants, and the like. But the subject did not exist because the
methods pursued in the solution of oecological problems were
singularly inadequate and often utterly unscientific. To observe
a plant with a spotted snake-like stem, or a seed that somewhat
resembled an insect, was enough to call into existence theories of
mimicry as applied to plants ; to note the air-spaces in aquatic plants
was to assume that they were flotation-devices. The subject
therefore attracted but few botanists ; for the serious botanists
were mainly working in their laboratories or in their herbaria.
Far-reaching and highly original as Schimper's direct dis-
coveries on oecological questions have been, botanical science
owes to him a deeper debt for his foundation of a truly scientific
and comprehensive method of oecological investigation resulting in
the attraction of able botanists to work at this branch of the
subject. Schimper from the first insisted on the employment of
methods as strict as those used in solving morphological and
physiological problems. And he showed himself the master of
oecological method by his critical and concurrent use of three
distinct modes of investigation, namely, of observations on the
comparative morphology including histology, on the physiology,
and on the geographical distribution of plants.
