Chap. I] THE FORMATIONS 185
iv. TRANSITION FROM EDAPHIC INTO CLIMATIC FORMATIONS.
Between the bare hard rock and the finely grained soil that finally
results from it, for the possession of which there is a struggle between
woodland and grassland, there is, according to what has been said
above, a series of open transitional formations, which possess the character
neither of woodland nor of grassland, and which assume nearly the same
appearance even in dissimilar climates, and owe their individuality chiefly
to the mechanical texture of the soil. The transformation of these
transitional formations into the definite ones of woodland and grassland
is continually proceeding under our eyes, but so slowly that we can
observe only a part of the process directly, and can form an estimate
of their sequence only by comparing their condition at different ages.
In spite of the highly interesting nature of the development of formations
very slight attention has hitherto been paid to it.
An excellent piece of work in this respect is Treub's description of
the vegetation at Krakatoa three years after the well-known eruption,
which covered the whole island with a hot deposit of pumice and
ashes.
As has been already stated 1 i the vegetation of Krakatoa at the time of
Treub's visit consisted chiefly of ferns (eleven species), whilst phanerogams
appeared only isolated and almost exclusively on the sea-shore. Ferns
thus form the earliest vegetation on volcanic islands — or rather only
the earliest macroscopic vegetation. They are preceded by a microscopic
vegetation of Cyauophyccac, which cover in a thin film t/ie whole surface
of ash and pumice, and prepare the soil for the development of ferns.
By the advice of my honoured friend Treub, I visited the volcano Gunong
Guntur in West Java, which, by the eruption of 1843, had been covered
down to its base with large hot heaps of detritus 2 . Naturally I found
the vegetation there in a far more developed stage than Treub did in
Krakatoa, yet it was still quite open and on the whole very poor. There
were absolutely no trees, but shrubby and herbaceous plants of very
various species were present (Fig. 100). As in Krakatoa, ferns were
fairly numerous both in species and individuals, without however forming
the main mass of the vegetation. The most essential part was played
by plants that grew as epiphytes in the neighbouring woods, namely
many orchids, as well as several ferns and the shrubby Rhododendron
javanicum, which found suitable conditions here, such as a hard substratum,
damp air, and rich illumination, and which could thus, undisturbed by
competitors, take possession of the soil. It was also interesting to find
numerous specimens of a Nepenthes, the pitchers of which held such
1 Page 80. 2 See Junghuhn, op. cit., Vol. II, p. 392.
