GUILDS
r 93
ground and bring them into a favourable situation as regards light. They
include woody plants with evergreen leaves as well as deciduous climbing
shrubs, also forms with herbaceous stems that exist for one vegetative
season only, or are perennial in their subterranean organs '. That lianes
climb upon and around other plants is clue only to the fact that, in nature,
the plant kingdom alone provides objects having the necessary form as
supports ; it is the form alone that is of importance and not the chemical
nature of the support, for, as cultivated plants show, the support may be
composed of the most miscellaneous materials. Certain forms of lianes do
occur naturally as rock-climbers, but the number of these is relatively small.
Lianes may be arranged in four groups, according to their mode of
climbing ; they are, scramblers, root-climbers, twiners, tendril-climbers.
Scramblers.
The majority of scramblers are shrubs distinguishable, in the simplest
cases, from other shrubs only by their long straggling branches, which
support themselves on other branches without fastening in any active
manner. The climbing of these plants is often assisted by prickles or
thorns, without our being able to regard the latter as adaptations to a
climbing mode of life, for example in roses and brambles. Whilst the
majority of scramblers represent the lowest degree of liane, there are
among them forms with very complete, even if passive, contrivances, for
example the palm-lianes of the tropical forests. These will be described
hereafter.
Root-climbers.
These form a small group, the representatives of which grow upwards
by means of subatirial roots fixed to the support. Such fixing roots are
short and thin as in ivy, or they may attain the thickness of a quill with
a length of 2-3 decimeters and wind like hoops round cylindrical supports.
Such vigorous development of fixing-roots is exhibited only by tropical
forms like Vanilla and many Araceae, such as Monstera and Philodendron.
Twiners.
In twining plants the axes grow spirally around slender supports in virtue
of their unilateral transverse geotropism, which later on passes over into
negative geotropism. To this group belong a number of well-known
herbaceous climbers, such as hop, kidney-bean, bindweed, also many woody
lianes, for example, honeysuckle, the widely cultivated Wistaria chinensis,
and species of Aristolochia.
Tendril-climbers.
This group is richest in forms. Climbing is rendered possible amongst
them by the possession of irritable organs, which, when in contact with
1 H. Schenck, I, p. 2.
SCHIMPER O
