Chap. II] GUILDS i 99
Asclepiadaceae, Gesneraceae, and Rubiaceae. Moreover, from the first all
plants that produce many lateral roots and require relatively little water
gain an advantage. Hence the number of species that could emigrate to
trees was relatively small, and victory over competitors was dependent on
conditions other than those prevailing on the ground.
In those species which no longer grew on the ground and therefore could
persist as epiphytes only, those characters were naturally selected that were
specially suited for existence on trees ; they have been adapted to this.
Especially was every characteristic that enabled an epiphyte to advance
upwards towards the light preserved and further developed. In the first
place, in this relation protective means against the loss of water are in
question, for every step on the way from the base to the summit of a tree
brings with it not only more light but also greater dryness. Epiphytes
growing at the base of trees in a rain-forest are hygrophilous, those that
occur on the highest branches are xerophilous. The whole matter gives
the impression of a gradual ascent from the deep shade into the sunlight,
from the damp cool air of the interior of the forest to the dry heat of the
top of the forest.
Xerophilous sun-loving epiphytes of the summits of trees, although they
represent the descendants of hygrophilous shade-bearing plants, are able
to desert the rain-forest. Thanks to their changed characters they are
able to inhabit quite open country. Thus they emigrated from the rain-
forests, and colonized regions with markedly dry seasons, especially
monsoon-forests, savannahs, and savannah-forests. A limit was set to
their success only where the drought lasted several months without being
interrupted regularly by heavy falls of dew ; yet there they were able to
settle permanently on the banks of rivers and lakes. The winter cold
more completely arrested the emigration of tropical epiphytes. Only few
species endowed with specially strong powers of resisting drought and
cold, such as Tillandsia usneoides and Polypodium incanum in North
America, were able to advance into districts with cold winters.
The tropical rain-forests have been by far the most important sources of
origin of the epiphytic guild, and their productions have penetrated far
into the warm temperate zones of North America, Argentina, Japan, and
Australia. We also find, however, in the temperate zones two limited
autochthonous sources of origin of higher epiphytes, namely, in the com-
paratively inextensive temperate rain-forests of Southern Chili and of
New Zealand. Here real temperate higher epiphytes have sprung from
temperate phanerogams and ferns.
Outside this region, as autochthonous epiphytes, we find only small Algae,
lichens, and mosses, that is to say, plants that, owing to their faculty of
existing for months in a dry condition, can resist even the desiccating
effects of prolonged winter cold. But even they are found richly developed
