Chap. II] GUILDS 201
may be found growing accidentally in the hollows of old trees ; they
occur however only in places where considerable masses of soil facilitate
the development of true subterranean roots, and they cannot in any way be
considered as epiphytes.
The varied contrivances by means of which higher epiphytes have
become adapted to their mode of life are so closely connected with the
conditions of existence in rain-forests and are so characteristic of the latter,
that they and the forests should be discussed together. It may now
merely be stated that they chiefly belong to the ferns and orchids (Fig. 111),
and in America specially to the Bromeliaceae.
3. SAPROPHYTES.
Saprophytes constitute a group of plants that dispense with chlorophyll
and are therefore dependent on organic nutriment. They obtain this
nutriment from dead vegetable and animal substances, and in a more
or less decomposed condition according to the particular species.
The vast majority of saprophytes belong to the Bacteria, Myxomycetes,
and Fungi ; the remainder are phanerogams. There are no other classes
of plants represented among them. In accordance with their mode of
nutrition, all saprophytes, except perhaps bacteria, must be derived from
green assimilating plants. Among phanerogams, numerous transitions
still exist between purely inorganic and purely organic methods of nutrition.
The first stage is denoted by the appearance of the mycorhiza, by means
of which phanerogams and ferns were first enabled to utilize the organic
constituents of humus. Increasing dependence on the fungus of the
mycorhiza, whose role has been transformed from that of a mere supplier
of nitrogen to that of a universal provider, has led through numerous
intermediate stages to the purely saprophytic mode of life. The sapro-
phytic habit has conferred on the plants which possess it the power of
occupying stations where, on account of insufficient illumination, green
plants can exist feebly or not at all. Like halophytes and epiphytes,
saprophytes are also fugitives from the struggle for existence.
Despite the wide distribution of mycorhiza only a relatively small
number of phanerogams, belonging to a few families, have adopted the
purely saprophytic mode of life. The majority of these are monocotyle-
dons and chiefly orchids, but the small family of Burmanniaceae is chiefly
saprophytic, and that of Triuridaceae exclusively so. Among dicotyle-
donous plants only Gentianaceae and Monotropeae possess saprophytic
species.
The change in the mode of nutrition causes a change in the structure
and oecology of the plant. Chlorophyll having become useless is sup-
pressed or transformed into other brown, yellow, or brick-red pigments
apparently allied to chlorophyll, and these give to saprophytes a vivid
