202 FORMATIONS AND GUILDS [Part II
colour whose oecological significance, if existent, is not yet known. Simul-
taneously with the chlorophyll, the organs that are functionally connected
with it are reduced, in particular the leaf-surface, which in saprophytes is
still present only in the form of a small scale, the stomata, which have
quite disappeared in some species, the tracheal passages, whose place is
taken by a few narrow vessels and tracheids. The subterranean system,
in accordance with the reduced transpiration, is less developed than in
green plants, and in many cases assumes a coralloid appearance. Mycorhiza
is well developed in saprophytes. So far as we can apprehend, their
flowers do not essentially differ from those of their non-saprophytic allies ;
their colour frequently agrees with that of their vegetative organs. The
peculiarities of their seeds have not yet been oecologically explained.
They are very numerous, of minute size, and possess an undifferentiated
feebly developed embryo.
Saprophytes, unlike lianes, and especially unlike epiphytes, are not con-
fined to certain definite climates, but, at least in their systematically lower
forms, appear in all climates, whilst the higher forms prefer damper climates
and chiefly inhabit shady places. Their larger forms appear principally in
forests, in which saprophytes constitute an essential, if only occasionally
a noticeable part of the vegetation. The most conspicuous and commonest
saprophytes in Europe are pileate fungi ; phanerogamic saprophytes are
much rarer. But a close investigation shows us at once that humus is
completely permeated by fine mycelial hyphae, and that all dead stems,
branches, and leaves nourish a rich thallophytic flora of saprophytes.
The more the chlorophyll-apparatus is reduced in amount in licmisapro-
pJiytes the more do they approach in general structure true saprophytes.
Coralliorrhiza innata and Limodorum abortivum, two humicolous orchids
poor in chlorophyll, very much resemble holosaprophytes, owing to their
leaves being reduced to scales, the first also by its coral-like rootless rhizome
and the second by its violet colour. This violet colour is seen in a still
higher degree in Lecanorchis javanica, an orchid poor in chlorophyll, which
I observed in Java. The gentianaceous Obolaria virginica I may consider
as belonging to a lower step in the transition to a saprophytic mode of
life. I frequently found this pretty little plant on the deep humus of very
shady forests near Baltimore, and was struck with the fact that, differing
from other shade-plants, it possessed a succulent stem and very small
leaves.
4. PARASITES.
Parasites derive their nutriment partially or entirely from other living
organisms, either plants or animals. They share with saprophytes the
property of obtaining their carbon partially or entirely from organic com-
pounds, and they assimilate the carbon-dioxide of the air in correspondingly
