Chap. II] GUILDS 203
small quantities, or not at all. The latter circumstance has caused similar
results in both cases as regards members serving for the elaboration of
carbon-dioxide. Like hemisaprophytes, liemiparasites, which obtain only
a portion of their necessary carbon in an organic form, more or less resemble
autotrophic plants as regards the amount of chlorophyll they contain and
as regards the form of their leaves ; whereas holoparasites, which live
entirely at the cost of the organic substance of their host, like holosapro-
phytes are devoid of chlorophyll and, if phanerogams, develop scales
in the place of foliage-leaves. All possible stages connect the two chief
groups of parasites.
The absence or reduction of the organs serving in other cases for the
assimilation of carbon dioxide endows holosaprophytes and holoparasites
with a great resemblance to one another as regards habit. Parasitism,
however, in certain cases has had a still deeper modifying influence on the
vegetable organism than has saprophytism. Thus there are parasitic
phanerogams, like Rafflesiaceae and Pilostyles, that are reduced to mere
roots and flowers, others, such as Balanophoraceae and Lennoaceae, with a
general fungoid form that no longer recalls the appearance of flowering
plants. Such extreme forms are so modified by their parasitic mode of
life, even in the formation of flower and fruit, that, although they are the
descendants of autotrophic plants, their systematic position can no longer
be determined with certainty.
It is easy to understand why the organs of absorption, the roots in
phanerogams, should be the most deeply modified by a parasitic mode
of life. It is only in this regard that an essential difference is exhibited
between, on the one hand, saprophytes which absorb their organic nutri-
ment from dead matter by means of the mycorhiza, and, on the other hand,
parasites which take theirs from living organisms by means of haustoria.
The haustoria of parasites are in many cases minute outgrowths of other-
wise normal roots, for example in numerous terrestrial liemiparasites
belonging to the genera Euphrasia, Rhinanthus, and other Scrophulariaceae,
as well as to the genera Thesium and Santalum in the Santalaceae. The
haustoria attach themselves closely to the host and drive into it processes
which are the true organs of absorption.
In other cases, a larger portion of the root-system, or the whole of it,
is enclosed within the host. In still other cases, the roots die early and
the haustoria are developed on the stem, being apparently homologous
with adventitious roots. This is found in Cuscuta and Cassytha (Fig. 112).
The mode of life of phanerogamic parasites is very varied. Some are
terrestrial, either erect herbs rooted to their host in the ground like
Euphrasia and Thesium among hemiparasites, Orobanche and Lathraea
among holoparasites ; or woody plants, as Santalum album. Others are
rootless lianes, such as the species of the convolvulaceous genus Cuscuta
