xvi A. F. W. SCHIMPER
explain the significance of the epiphytic habit and structure. In
the forests he noted that the least modified types were those living
in moist and shady crevices of the bark low down the tree-trunks,
and that the more elaborate ones lived in the drier but better
lighted situations higher up the trees. In the open country,
especially in savannahs, he observed that the few epiphytes grow-
ing on trees, and the lithophytes, were identical with the elaborate
xerophytes perched on the tree-tops in the forest. Thus he con-
cluded that epiphytes were derived from terrestrial forest- plants, the
key to whose evolution lay in the struggle to reach the light without
the expenditure of the material necessary to raise the leaves of
a terrestrial plant to an equivalently illuminated spot, and the key
to whose success lay in the successful adoption of a xerophilous
habit. Other observations showing the interchange of positions
among epiphytes, plants occupying shores, rocks, alpine heights, the
vicinity of salt-springs, and their absence from other intervening
spots confirmed the view that they are all true xerophytes. Again
appealing to the fact established by cultivation that shore-plants
grow equally well inland away from saline soils, Schimper was
able to draw the conclusion that they were salt-enduring xerophytes
driven to the shore by competition.
Observations on the general distribution of types of vegetation
over the surface of the earth provide additional means of arriving
at important oecological conclusions ; for they deal on the one hand
with great climatic and other changes of the environment, and on
the other hand with more or less similar conditions prevailing at
widely distant spots. Schimper was thus able to point out that it
is a moist climate that determines the existence of phanerogamous
and vascular epiphytes, excepting where a cold winter steps in to
prevent the roots from absorbing water. Again, by comparing
tropical and temperate alpine plants he was able to show that cold
is not the controlling factor in the case of these xerophytes.
The present work, his masterpiece, shows the manner in which
Schimper regarded plant-life. It reveals him, not as merely the
keen observer and subtle critic of Nature, but rather as her inti-
mate friend from whose watchful eyes and sympathetic mind she
cannot hide her mysteries. It reveals him, not as the idle creator
of airy hypothesis, which the first breath of fact can dissipate, but
