SECTION I. THE TROPICAL ZONES
CHAPTER 1
GENERAL CHARACTERS OF THE TROPICAL CLIMATE
AND ITS EFFECTS ON VEGETATION AND FLORA
i. General Characters of the Tropical Climate. i. Atmospheric Precipitations.
Rain. Relative humidity. Clouds, ii. Heat. Temperature of the air. Heating by
direct insolation, iii. Light and the Ultra-violet Rays. Intensity of the chemical rays of
light. 2. Some General Effects of the Tropical Climate on Plant-life. i. Pro-
cesses that are chiefly influenced by Heat. Cardinal points. Cases of rapid and slow
growth. Transpiration in sun and shade, ii. Physiological Action of Tropical Light
on Plants. Protective measures against intense light. Decomposition of chlorophyll.
Position of foliage-leaves. Photic ration of shade-plants, iii. Physiological Action of
Atmospheric Precipitations on Plants. The controlling influence on the character of the
vegetation and the periodic processes. Ombrophily and ombrophoby. 3. The Floristic
Character of the Tropical Zone. Survey of the megathermic group of forms.
i. GENERAL CHARACTERS OF THE TROPICAL CLIMATE,
i. ATMOSPHERIC PRECIPITATIONS.
The amount of the annual rainfall in the tropics varies between 5 meters
and more at some mountain-stations and a few centimeters in desert
districts. It is on the average greatest in the equatorial zone, that is to
say between 5 N. and 5 S., and it diminishes more rapidly in a northerly
than in a southerly direction. The desert districts within the tropics
belong with few exceptions to the border zones and merely represent
the tropical continuations of the extensive subtropical deserts.
At least as important to plant-life as the amount of precipitation is
its seasonal distribution. The year in the greater part of the tropical
zone consists of a dry season, usually coinciding with the winter months,
and a rainy season in the summer months. Some equatorial districts,
for example Guiana, possess two unequally long rainy seasons, and some
others, for example Singapore, have no distinct rainy season in the year.
The difference between rainy and dry seasons is more decided inland,
especially in plains, than along the coasts and on mountains, where its
influence on plant-life is frequently no longer appreciable. The coin-
cidence of the rainy and dry seasons with certain months in the year
is not a matter of physiological importance to the vegetation, except in
some border districts of limited area, since the differences between the
temperatures in winter and summer are usually very small.
f P 2
