Chap. I] CHARACTERS OF THE TROPICAL CLIMATE 313
ii. HEAT.
The mean annual atmospheric temperature varies between 20° and 28 ,
and is very steady when compared with that of higher latitudes ; even the
differences between the annual highest and lowest temperatures in the
equatorial district do not much exceed that of the diurnal variation of
temperature, and on the average are from io°-i3°C, but often much less,
even 5 .
'The difference of temperatures between the hottest and coldest month near the
Equator lies between i° and 5°C, and does not exceed these figures, not even in
the interior of continents— at Lado in Central Africa, 5 N., it is 4-8° C. ; at Iquitos,
37 S., it is 2-4° C. ; at Equatorville on the Congo it is 1-2° C. But even towards the
limits of the tropics, and in the extremest climates met with within the tropics, the
annual variation of temperature hardly exceeds 13°. At Calcutta it is 10-3° ; at Hong
Kong, 13-4°; at Vera Cruz, 6-5°; at Havana, 5-8°; at St. Louis in Senegal, 9-0°; at Rio
de Janeiro, 6-5° ; at Kuka in Bornu, 12a ; at Khartum, 12-9° C. The annual variation
of temperature is therefore at many places less than the diurnal variation, the limits
of which we may perhaps assume to be 5 and 13 , for example at Equatorville, 8°; in
Batavia, 6-5°, and during August, 77 ; at Chinchosho in Loango, annual variation,
6-4°, but in July, 7-3° ; at Kuka in the dry season, 11-4° ; at Lado, difference 2h.-7h.,
annual variation 77 , in the dry season n-i°; at Bakel in West Africa, 12-4° C. 1 '
Only at a few points, quite close to the limits of the zone, for example
in Southern China, is zero or even a somewhat lower temperature actually
reached now and then. The average maxima usually vary between 30°
and 3j° C. and remain below the extremes observed in extra-tropical
districts.
Meteorological reports unfortunately only exceptionally give data re-
garding temperatures due to direct insolation, although this at least equals
atmospheric temperature in its importance to organic life 2 . Corresponding
to the position of the sun at the zenith or at a short distance from it,
the intensity of insolation during a definite period, for example in an hour,
is greater in the tropics than in higher latitudes, and must exert a corre-
spondingly greater heating effect. In fact, Pechuel-Losche at Chinchosho
found the soil heated very often to 75 , frequently to 8o°, and once
even to 82°C. Haberlandt, on the other hand, at Buitenzorg during the
wet season observed with a solar radiation-thermometer temperatures merely
like those usual at Gratz, namely 55°-5o"-7° C. at noon. The relatively slight
effect of insolation in this case is apparently a consequence of the large
quantity of water-vapour in the air. In continental districts much higher
temperatures prevail, at least during the dry season. The cooling of
vegetation by nocturnal radiation is certainly considerable during the dry
1 Hann, op. cit., Bd. II, p. 12.
2 Considering the danger of sunstroke in Cisgangetic India and other tropical conti-
nental districts.
