Chap. I] CHARACTERS OF THE TROPICAL CLIMATE 215
2. SOME GENERAL EFFECTS OF THE TROPICAL CLIMATE
ON PLANT-LIFE.
i. PROCESSES THAT ARE CHIEFLY INFLUENCED BY HEAT.
It appears from the foregoing that the tropical climate differs from that
of higher latitudes chiefly in its uniform and high temperature, and in the
greater activity of the rays of heat and of light. The atmospheric pre-
cipitations exhibit neither in intensity, nor in their sequence in time, any
essential difference as compared with the temperate zone, where at certain
stations as great a rainfall occurs as at the rainiest points in the tropics,
and where extensive districts exhibit a similar alternation of dry and
rainy seasons. That, notwithstanding this, precipitations have still greater
influence on the oecology of tropical plants than on temperate ones
and evoke in them a series of characteristic peculiarities, is partly caused
by the combination of greater heat with greater humidity, and partly
by the fluctuation of the humidity in contrast with the steadiness of
the heat.
Owing to the great uniformity and considerable height of the tempera-
ture in the tropics, much smaller differences in the harmonic optima, and
consequently a much greater uniformity in the curve of temperature showing
the oecological optimum 1 , are to be expected, than in higher latitudes.
More precise data on this matter are not at present available, since the
physiological cardinal points as well as the oecologically most favourable
degrees of temperature have as yet been determined only for temperate
plants, in which, corresponding to the natural conditions, they lie far apart.
We can therefore say no more upon this subject, for it is inadmissible
to draw conclusions regarding the cardinal points of vegetation in the
tropics merely from the extreme temperatures of the air, since the nocturnal
cooling due to radiation, which in the dry season considerably exceeds
that of the air, as well as the strong heating by direct insolation, must
play an all-important part in many physiological processes.
Growth.
Among the physiological processes with a high optimum of temperature,
growth, at any rate after the period of germination, takes a prominent
place. It would be instructive to institute comparisons between plants
of one and the same species in the tropics and in temperate zones,
under external conditions otherwise as similar as possible. Up to the
present only very few observations regarding the rate of growth of
tropical plants are available, and from these only one conclusion can be
1 See p. 44.
