Chap. I] CHARACTERS OF THE TROPICAL CLIMATE 223
II. Gratz.
Aesculus H
1 1 . vjrv/i u,
ippocastanum .....
i-37
Syringa vul
s^aris .......
2-03
Acer Pseud
oplatanus ......
2-03
Corylus Avellana .......
3-33
Cornus sanguinea ......
4-09
Pyrus communis .......
5-97
III. After N. J. C. Muller.
Poplar .
2-42
Oak .
2-89
Beech .
3-5°
Birch .
3-65
Willow .
4'22
Hornbeam
4-36
Alder .
7-96
ii. PHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION OF TROPICAL LIGHT ON PLANTS.
From our knowledge of the effects of light on growth and transpiration,
we may safely assume that the light of the tropics, in accordance with its
greater intensity, influences these processes still more strongly than does
the weaker light of higher latitudes. In fact the growth in length of a
bamboo is quite strikingly less during the hours of the day than during those
of the night ; the growth in length of the aerial roots of Taeniophyllum
Zollingeri stops altogether in daylight of relatively very moderate intensity,
even in a very weak light ; and the comparatively strong transpiration,
which causes the flaccid drooping of the foliage of many tropical plants
during the brightest hours of daylight, may be considered partly as an
effect, even if indirect, of the rays of light.
The share that light takes in the above-mentioned functions has not
yet been numerically determined. However a glimpse into the different
specific actions of light has been afforded, in particular by Wiesner's
observations at Buitenzorg.
The lie in relation to light of the leaves of tropical plants, according
to Wiesner's observations, differs in general from that of the leaves of
temperate plants, since they do not, like them, universally strive to attain
a position perpendicular to the strongest diffuse light, but exhibit this
disposition only in the inner, poorly lighted part of the crown ; at the
periphery of the tree, however, they give up this disposition in the face
of rays of high incidence, and the lie of the leaves is there determined
by direct sunlight.
Owing to this lie of the leaves when they are exposed to the direct
rays of the sun, not only are strong heating and consequent excessive
transpiration prevented, but at the same time the destruction of the
chlorophyll by intense light is obviated. Several characteristics of tropical
