224 ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. I
foliage appear to have been acquired with the special object of saving
the chlorophyll, or at any rate they subserve that end ; among them are
movements of the leaflets of pinnate leaves, strong reflection of light by
the foliar surfaces, prolonged retention of a non-turgid condition and
the consequent flaccid drooping of young leaves, foldings, tomentum, and
so forth l . In spite of all such protective devices, the destruction of
chlorophyll by the intense tropical light is a very conspicuous and wide-
spread phenomenon. Thus the leaves of Pisonia alba, which is frequently
grown as an ornamental tree, are vertical and sap-green when young ;
later on they arrange themselves at right angles to the direction of the
most intense daylight, and suffer such a complete destruction of their
chlorophyll as to become almost pure white 2 . In sunny situations within
the tropics yellowish discolorations of the foliage are very common.
The greater intensity of tropical light also renders possible a more
luxuriant development of the shade-flora than in higher latitudes. At
the same time, the property plants possess of demanding less light at
higher temperatures also operates in the same direction. Wiesner has
actually seen tropical plants thriving under such a feeble illumination
as with us would entirely exclude all green vegetation. It would be
extremely useful to investigate more closely the vegetation in the shade
of a virgin forest from Wiesner's points of view and in accordance with
his methods.
Thus, Wiesner found a Javanese grass, Orthopogon Wiesneri, Schifmer, growing
in patches in the shade of Myristica moschata with L = j^g (I maximum = o^oi6) 3 ,
but not anywhere in the shade of the densest palm-thickets, where L = y^
(I maximum =o-oi i, I mean = o-oo3). Of all herbaceous non-epiphytic Dicotyledones
Wiesner found Geophila reniformis, Don., penetrating most deeply into the shade.
It continues to blossom with L = ^ (I maximum = o-o26 ; I mean = c-on). Without
flowering, it bears almost as great a deprivation of light as Orthopogon Wiesneri.
The intensity of insolation in the tropics is so great that many cultivated plants,
including coffee and cocoa, at least when young, require shade. For this purpose
trees with a thin crown are used, especially those with pinnate leaves, for instance
Albizzia moluccana, Miq., also Cedrela serrulata, Miq., Cedrela odorata, Linn.,
Pithecolobium Saman, Benth., in Java. In tropical America species of Erythrina
are usually employed for the same purpose. Probably, it is less a question of keep-
ing off the luminous and chemical rays than the heat-rays, which would cause too
great heating and consequently too great transpiration.
Wiesner made some measurements of the intensity of light under the shading of
trees in the experimental garden at Tjikomoh near Buitenzorg, and he found : —
Albizzia moluccana, Miq ^q
Cedrela serrulata, Miq. ^g
Cedrela odorata, Linn. ...... 577
Pithecolobium Saman, Benth xr-I
1 See Wiesner, Johow, Haberlandt. 2 Wiesner. 3 See p. 55.
