Chap. I] CHARACTERS OF THE TROPICAL CLIMATE 225
iii. PHYSIOLOGICAL ACTION OF ATMOSPHERIC PRECIPITATIONS
ON PI A NTS.
The differences in the oecology of tropical plants are in the first place
associated with differences in the atmospheric precipitations. These
alone, usually without any, even indirect, co-operation on the part of the
temperature, cause the domination of woodland or of grassland, the
hygrophilous, tropophilous. or xerophilous character of the vegetation,
and the periodic phenomena. Accordingly, the differences in the climatic
humidity also determine the range of species within the tropics.
A separate chapter is devoted to the various types of tropical wood-
land and grassland arising from differences in the atmospheric precipita-
tions, and to the climatic conditions determining their presence, and also
to the periodic phenomena.
Reference may here be made to Wiesner's investigations regarding the ombvophily
and onibrophoby of tropical vegetation, for they are as yet too incomplete to be
serviceable in characterizing the several climatic districts. According to Wiesner,
the great majority of plants in the moist hot western parts of Java possess markedly
ombrophilous foliage, and this condition may probably extend to the vegetation in
a constantly moist tropical climate. On the other hand, in those parts of the torrid
zone where long rainless periods regularly prevail, the condition of affairs may be
changed in favour of ombrophobous species. Investigations on this subject have not
been conducted, but the frequency in such districts of succulent species and other
plants with unwettable coatings favours this opinion.
Nevertheless, many decidedly ombrophobous plants thrive in a constantly moist
climate ; thus Wiesner rightly draws attention to the fine growth of various species
of Opuntia and Cereus in the botanic garden at Buitenzorg. These plants are, how-
ever, confined to very open sunny situations, where strongly ombrophilous plants
would suffer from too great transpiration. On the other hand, the feeble growth
in West Java and other very moist tropical districts of many plants from a drier
climate is to be attributed to onibrophoby. This has been proved by Wiesner
particularly in regard to roses, which nearly always assume a very stunted form
in tropical gardens. Their foliage is weakly developed and caducous, their corollas
are small and irregular. The different kinds of roses are, however, unequally
ombrophobous, and consequently display different degrees of deficiency, or may
absolutely refuse to grow.
To the indigenous ombrophobous plants of constantly humid districts there belong
in particular those with delicate pinnate leaves, which by their movements more
or less effectively evade the violence of the rain, such as Mimosaceae, species of
Oxalis, and the like. But such forms are scantily represented in Java, especially
in the forest ; their abundance is characteristic of the vegetation of drier climates.
In accordance with its ombrophily, the foliage in a constantly humid climate is as
a rule easily wettable ; besides, as Wiesner shows, foliage that is wetted with difficulty
becomes easily wettable when exposed to continuous humidity, and the reverse is
the case. Young leaves are as a rule unwettable and ombrophobous ; later they
SCHIMI'ER ( )
