^34
ZONES AND REGIONS
[Pt. Ill, Sect. I
also frequently found wild. The largest forms grow in forests scattered
among other trees, or they constitute independent forests (Fig. 207) ;
smaller forms are common as underwood.
Very unique and occasionally very common forms of the megathermic
flora are the species of Pandanus (Figs. 115, 116, 122, 212, 214), which
however rarely occur in great numbers together. They are confined
to the Old World. They occur chiefly by the seaside, but also in forests ;
only rarely do they form pure woods.
The Araceae, owing to their occurrence in great numbers and to the great
diversity in their species, take
a prominent place in tropical
forest scenes. Among them are
found lianes like species of
Philodendron, Monstera, Pothos ;
epiphytes like species of An-
thurium and Philodendron, and
many terrestrial herbs which are
often social. To the aroids
belong some of the most remark-
able productions of the tropics,
for example the gigantic Amor-
phophallus Titanum in Sumatra.
Araceae are also important con-
stituents of the swamp-flora, as
the species of Colocasia and
Alocasia.
The Scitamineae, in the form
of perennial herbs as tall as a
man, are common and prominent
constituents of the forest flora.
Bananas, Musa paradisiaca and
M. sapientum (Fig. 49), are not
only among the commonest and most conspicuous cultivated plants, but
also, in Asia, are frequent in the forest. Heliconieae are in particular
characteristic of the tropical forests of America, as various Zingiberaceae
are of those of Asia. Madagascar possesses the only tree-form of the order
in the traveller's tree, Ravenala madagascariensis, which is grown in all
tropical cultivated lands as an ornamental tree (Fig. 123).
Finally, amongst prominent monocotyledonous families forming con-
stituents of the flora, mention should be made of the OrcJiidaccae, which,
in particular, as epiphytes, develop an astonishing diversity of forms, and
also of the Bromeliaceac in tropical America, which are likewise chiefly
epiphytic. The grasslike Eriocaulaceae are, especially in species of the
Fig. 122. Pandanus sp. Botanic garden at Bniten-
zorg. From a photograph by G. Karsten.
