236 ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. I
greater. Their characteristics are however much less striking, so that
a picture of vegetation essentially composed of Dicotyledones alone,
frequently has a great resemblance to one in the temperate zones. When
marked peculiarities such as those of branching, abnormal disposition of
the leaves towards the horizon, plank-buttresses, subaerial roots, epiphytic
growth, and so forth, do present themselves, they are not as a rule the
characters of families, but oecological adaptive features recurring in the
most different cycles of affinity.
The distribution of Amentacetxe within the tropics is comparable with
that of Coniferae, as they form a considerable contingent of the flora in the
higher mountain regions outside the megathermic climate, whilst they are
unimportant in the lowlands. They are not completely absent ; there
are, for instance, some megathermic oaks in Mexico, and, according to
my own observations, in the forests near Singapore.
The Urticincac are extremely important in the tropical zones. The
Moraceae in the first place, with the genus Ficus with its numerous arboreous
and shrubby species, also with the genus Artocarpus, to which belong
some of the commonest cultivated tropical trees, Artocarpus incisa, the
bread-fruit tree, A. integrifolia, the jack-fruit tree ; the Urticaceae with
numerous genera of usually shrubby or herbaceous species.
Among the Polygoninae, the Piperaceae are exclusively megathermic.
They are represented in the rain-forests chiefly by many shrubby and
herbaceous terrestrial plants, as well as by root-climbing lianes and epi-
phytes. The Polygonaceae are limited to a few species, chiefly arboreous.
The families that in Central Europe chiefly represent the Ccntrospcrmac,
namely Caryophyllaceae and Chenopodiaceae, are almost exclusively
mesothermic and of no importance within the tropics. On the other hand,
Amarantaceae are very numerous as inconspicuous herbs and more
rarely as woody plants. The Phytolaccaceae and Nyctaginaceae are
mainly tropical American.
The most important family of the north temperate zone among the
Polycarpicae, that of the Ranuncuiaceae, is mesothermic and microthermic,
and therefore scarcely represented within the tropics except on high
mountains. The Magnoliaceae also are less frequent than in the north
temperate zone. The most important family of the group within the
tropics is that of Lauraceae, to which numerous forest trees, also shrubs,
and the common herbaceous liane-parasite Cassytha, belong. The purely
tropical families of the Anonaceae. Myristicaceae, Monimiaceae, and. in
contrast with the allied mesothermic Berberidaceae, the family of the
Menispermaceae, include many woody plants.
The tropical Rhoeadinae are almost restricted to the Capparideae. The
few Cruciferae are mostly mountain forms.
Among the Cistiflorac are many purely megathermic families of woody
