TROPICAL WOODLAND AND GRASSLAND 261
besides these, transitions are very frequent between savannah-forest and
savannah as well as between thorn-forest and open bush-formations,
which as intermediate forms connect the formations of woodland and
desert.
Tropical grassland, wherever it has not been modified by human agency,
occurs chiefly as savannah, more rarely as steppe. The occurrence of
meadow, by which we understand hygrophilous or tropophilous grassland,
is rare in the tropics and is always due to factors that are merely local.
Tropical desert has a vegetation consisting of scrub, that is to say,
of stunted trees and shrubs or of shrubs only, also of succulent plants and
perennial herbs. Most tropical deserts are near the tropics of Cancer
and Capricorn, and are allied to the far more extensive warm temperate
deserts. The climate of the tropical deserts will be treated of in a subse-
quent chapter together with that of the temperate deserts.
2. HIGH-FOREST CLIMATE IN THE TROPICS.
Brandis declares that really succcssfid forests occur only where the rainfall
attains forty inches, and that a luxuriant rich vegetation is limited to zones
ivhcre the annual rainfall is much greater.
The available meteorological tables for tropical districts show, in regard
to land that is covered with or has been covered with high-forest (rain-
forest or high monsoon-forest), an annual rainfall of at least 180 cm.,
excepting near large sheets of water where telluric moisture replaces
rain. Within the most extensive forest-district of the tropics, the Indo-
Malayan, including New Guinea, an annual rainfall of over two meters is
the rule ; wherever much less than two meters of rain falls, the indigenous
vegetation, so far as is known, forms less lofty woodland, as at many
spots in East Java, or creates savannah, as in Timor (Koepang in Timor
has a rainfall of 145 cm.). On the other hand, at many spots the rainfall
exceeds 300 cm. ; at several it exceeds 400, at Buitenzorg, for instance,
reaching 499 cm.
Thanks to the excellent records of the numerous meteorological stations in Dutch
Malaysia, Woeikof l has been able to compare the conditions of rainfall of a great
number of localities there. In Java the annual rainfall is given for 62 stations ; it is
less than 200 cm. for twelve of them only, for five it is less than 150 cm., for none is it
less than 100 cm., the minimum (113 cm.) being at Probolinggo. Several of the above
localities are known to me personally, for instance Probolinggo, where the rainfall is
lowest. Probolinggo is in East Java, far from any forest, and there, except man-
groves, I found in the wild state only thorny brushwood, xerophilous in character.
The vegetation near Pasoeroean, where the rainfall is quite as small, is just like that
of Probolinggo. It cannot now be ascertained what kind of indigenous vegetation
formerly occupied these parts of the country, which are now covered with planta-
1 Woeikof in Zeitschr. d. osterr. Gesellsch. f. Meteorol., 1885.
