Chai>. Ill] TROPICAL WOODLAND AND GRASSLAND 271
4. WOODLAND CLIMATE AND SAVANNAH CLIMATE IN
BRAZIL.
The difference between woodland climate and grassland climate is
exhibited very instructively after crossing the mountain-range Serra do
Mar on the coast of South Brazil, which, stretching from north to south,
deprives the sea-breezes of so much of their moisture as to render
them considerably drier as they blow over the Brazilian plateau as far
as the Andes, which constitute a mighty barrier that condenses their
remaining aqueous vapour.
East of the Serra do Mar stretches the immense evergreen forest of
the Brazilian coast, usually exhibiting only such interruptions as culti-
vation has caused ; to the west savannah predominates. The forest is
restricted as fringing-forest to the river-banks, or frequently in the form
of open low savannah-forest, but also as high-forest, clothes the eastern
slopes of the mountain-ranges that are exposed to the sea-breeze ; it also
appears in depressions in the ground, where water accumulates in the
soil. It is only on the slopes of the Andes that true evergreen lofty
rain-forest reappears for the first time, because, thanks to their great
altitude, the mountain-slopes rob the wind of its remaining moisture.
If we land, for instance, at the seaport of Santos in the province of
Sao Paulo we soon perceive from the fine growth of evergreen trees,
from the abundance of epiphytes, and from the stately lianes, that we
are within the district of the high-forest, even though this has been
cleared near the town. Santos has in fact an annual rainfall of 250 cm.
Raiz de la Serra, at the foot of the Serra (21 meters above sea-level),
has a still greater rainfall, namely 280 cm., than has the seaport Santos,
and Alto da Serra on the mountain-range (800 meters above sea-level)
has as much as 336 cm. Once the mountain-crest is passed, however, the
rainfall sinks below that necessary for high-forest, and savannah, not bush-
wood, becomes the predominant vegetation. At the foot of the Serra
on the west side lies Sao Paulo (740 meters above sea-level) with still
120-150 cm. of rain, but the rainfall diminishes as we pass inland and
the coast-mountains become more distant — naturally leaving out of
account the mountain-ranges in the interior. Porto Ferreira (531 meters
above sea-level) has for instance 1,042 mm. The rainfall in the province
of Sao Paulo apparently does not fall below 100 cm.
According to Saint-Hilaire the province of Minas Geraes lying to the
north of Sao Paulo is subdivided by the Serra do Espinhaco into an
eastern district of high-forest, and a western district of savannah {campo)
and of deciduous savannah-forest. In the high-forest district the annual
rainfall exceeds 2co cm. ; in the savannah district it usually ranges between
100 cm. and 150 cm., and on the average does not attain 170 cm.
Towards the south, the region of savannah, together with the savannah-
