Chap. Ill] TROPICAL WOODLAND AND GRASSLAND 275
RAINFALL IN MILLIMETERS OF THE HIGH-FOREST
IN MINAS GERAES.
GONGO SOCO.
1 9 58' S., 43 33' W., 1,090 meters above sea-level. Two years' observations.
(After Draenert in Meteorol. Zeitschr., 1886, p. 390.)
Dec. Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May June July Aug. Sept. Oct. Nov. Year
369-6 604-3 5377 253-0 172-0 57-9 55-1 34-0 20-3 93-2 169-7 573-5 2 939*3
The climate, however, is not so unfavourable for tree-growth as to
prevent small xerophilous savannah-trees from establishing themselves
in the prairie and thus lending to it the character of a savannah. At
the points where water is more plentiful in the soil, where the winds
blow less strongly especially during winter, where atmospheric humidity
is greater, woodland prevails over grassland, so that the whole district
shows the alternation of both formations in its park-like features.
In contrast with its southern portion, the middle part of Central Brazil,
the so-called Scrtdo district, possesses a xerophilous zuoodlaud climate.
Here the year is hot throughout, at times very hot, and there are no
dry cold winter months that are so injurious to woodland ; on the other
hand, the climate includes factors unfavourable to grassland in the more
considerable heat and the small amount of precipitation over the greater
part of the district, except the coast. Finally, the vegetative season is
much interrupted by hot dry periods.
The Sertao district is therefore much richer in woodland than is the
southern cooler campos district. Tree-growth is richer in the savannah,
extensive tracts are covered by savannah-forest and thorn-forest, in general
woodland strongly predominates over grassland. To explain in detail
why woodland occurs in one place, and why grassland in another, is at
present only partially possible, for there is a lack of accurate data of the
meteorology and local constitution of the soil, and the soil plays an
important part in such mixed districts 1 .
Quite a narrow strip of coast in the province of Pernambuco possesses a very
heavy rainfall, a real high-forest climate (Pernambuco, 297 cm.). Tree-growth is
extremely luxuriant in the public grounds of the principal town, but there is no
information available regarding the indigenous vegetation.
1 See Part III, Sect. I, Chap. V.
T 2
