Chap. Ill] TROPICAL WOODLAND AND GRASSLAND 277
and also in moist depressions in the ground, in the same way as in the
campos.
Only general facts are known regarding the climate of the llanos ;
accurate meteorological data are wanting. Yet, from the available material,
the climate may be described as one hostile to woodland. The year is
divided into a quite rainless dry season of five months, which is con-
temporaneous with our winter and early spring, and into a rainy season,
which begins at the end of April. In the climate of the llanos it is
the dry season that is hostile to woodland, for during the greater part of
its duration the dry easterly trade-wind blows almost continuously, and
usually with extreme intensity, and is associated with great heat and
excessive dryness of the air.
A windy dry season is unfavourable to woodland, whereas it does no
harm to the thoroughly dried up prairie, whose existence is maintained
only in the subterranean parts of its plants, except when the season is
immoderately prolonged. Such abnormally long periods of drought are
not rare, but they are far more fatal to woodland than to grassland.
In the llanos, according to Humboldt, it rains continuously during the
rainy season. This directly favours the prairie, whose existence, as we
know, depends more on very frequent showers than on heavy ones during
the vegetative season.
The following extracts from Hann's ' Klimatologie ' give the character-
istics of the climate of the llanos : —
' "The clearness of the air from December until February is incomparable. The sky
is continuously cloudless, and the presence of a single cloud is a phenomenon that
engages the attention of all the inhabitants. The wind blows strongly from the east
and north-east" (Humboldt).
' C. Sachs stayed at Calabozo (9 N., 150 m. above sea-level) in the dry season (Dec.
1876 until Feb. 1877). He found a morning temperature of 22-25 C. before sunrise,
and 34-35 between 1 and 2 p.m. In February, the mean temperature between 1 and
2 p.m. is 35-9°, and the relative humidity 30%, and sometimes only 16%. The east
trade-wind blows constantly from sunrise until noon. Complete drought prevails
for five months, during which there is no dew. In April the rainy season begins,
and the land that has been parched into a desert becomes clothed once more with
dense vegetation ' (pp. 365-6).
The small western islands of the West Indian archipelago are occupied
by woodland, which is favoured by the great humidity of the air. The
woodland is composed sometimes of rain-forest, as in Dominica, sometimes
of thorn-forest, as in St. Kitts, according as the rainfall is greater or less
than about 150 cm.
I am personally acquainted with the vegetation of the two islands, regarding the
rainfall of which data are given below. The rainfall in Dominica, as I know from
experience, is considerably heavier in the mountains, where the high-forest shows
