Chap. Ill] TROPICAL WOODLAND AND GRASSLAND 279
great forests, possibly rather as fringing forests, clothe the plains at the mouth of the
Congo (9°4'S., 12° 15' E.), whilst the highlands on the lower Congo (San Salvador
6° 17' S., 1 4 53' E., with rainfall of 998 mm.) are covered with savannah. South of
the mouth of the Congo, again, we at once find savannah with gigantic Adansonia.
In the southerly direction the savannah becomes continually poorer, and at Kinsembo
a desert character is assumed, where succulent plants like Euphorbia and Aloe
predominate. North of Mossamedes (15 11' S., 12 8' E.), Welwitschia mirabilis
first shows itself, the grass vegetation becoming constantly scantier, and beyond the
Kunene (i7°3o' S., 14 E.), the river bounding Lower Guinea, only scattered tufts of
grass and accommodating thorn-plants grow on the parched and stony ground.
In the preceding remarks, the distribution of high-forest — possibly
rain-forest throughout — and of savannah is shown in the clearest manner
to be dependent on the amount of rainfall. Everywhere high-forest alone
predominates when the rainfall attains 200 cm. in the year, but is entirely
supplanted by savannah when the rainfall does not exceed 170-180 cm.
Finally savannah gradually dwindles into desert at a rainfall of 30-35 cm.
Here and there in fertile districts, especially where there is much
atmospheric humidity, savannah alternates with savannah-forest, which
appears to be absent from other districts, for instance the high plateau
on the Congo and to the south of the mouth of the Congo.
Should the inquiry be made, why districts that are too dry for high-
forest are occupied by savannah, which is grassland, and not by scrub,
we may reply that the frequency of the precipitations shown by the great
number of rainy days, as well as the not very high temperature, are
favourable to grassland. Pechuel-Losche mentions the by no means rare
occurrence of prolonged periods of drought on the Congo coast, for
instance years with only 20 centimeters of rainfall, and, as has been
explained already, such droughts are much less fatal to the continued
existence of grassland than to that of woodland. The heavy dew of the
normal dry season will possibly continue during these periods of drought
to moisten the surface of the ground, but is of no value to the roots of
woody plants. Our meteorological table for San Salvador, on the
savannah-clad highlands of the lower Congo, shows that strong winds
prevail there, especially during the dry season. This circumstance,
unfavourable to woodland, favours grassland. Our present knowledge
of the African climate is, however, still too incomplete to afford a com-
pletely satisfactory answer to the question postulated.
Our meteorological knowledge of the savannah districts on the elevated
plateau of central tropical East Africa is still very incomplete, but the
available data, for instance the tabular statement given below, exhibit
a typical savannah climate, with a moderately hot vegetative season, during
which the rainfall is about 100 centimeters in very frequent showers, as the
number of rainy days tells.
