CONTENTS xxi
SECOND PART. FORMATIONS AND GUILDS
CHAPTER I. THE FORMATIONS
PAGES
I. Climatic and Edaphic Factors. General type of the vegetation determined by atmo-
spheric precipitation. General type of the flora determined chiefly by heat. Details determined
by edaphic influences. The formations. Principal and subsidiary members. Distinction between
climatic and edaphic formations. 2. The Climatic Formations, i. Classification. Charac-
teristics of woodland and grassland. The struggle between them. Invasion of the Malayan
forest by the alang-steppe. Degradation of woodland and grassland into desert. Character-
istics of deserts, ii. Woodland Climate. Climatic conditions for the existence of trees. Hygro-
philous and xerophilous trees. The limits of tree-growth. Brushwood. Characteristics of
woodland climate, iii. Grassland Climate. Climatic conditions for the existence of grasses.
Characteristics of grassland climate, iv. Meteorological Tables. What they tell and what they
should tell. 3. The Edaphic Formations, i. Edaphic Influences in general, ii. Edaphic
Formations due to Telluric Water, iii. Open Edaphic Formations. Rocks, gravel, sandy soil,
iv. Transition from Edaphic into Climatic Formations. Krakatoa. The volcano Gunter. The
Camargue. 4. Life of the Plant-commune in the Formations .... 1 59-1 91
CHAPTER II. GUILDS
Introduction. 1. Lianes. Scramblers, Root-climbers, Twiners, Tendril-climbers. Geo-
graphical distribution of lianes. 2. Epiphytes. Oecological conditions of life. Transition
from the terrestrial to the epiphytic mode of life. Contrivances for ensuring dispersal of seeds.
Geographical distribution of epiphytes. 3. Saprophytes. Occurrence in families of plants.
Connexion between structure and mode of life. Geographical distribution. Hemisaprophytes.
4. Parasites. Hemiparasites and holoparasites. Resemblances to saprophytes. Organs of
absorption: haustoria. Occurrence in families of plants. Geographical distribution . 192-206
THIRD PART. ZONES AND REGIONS
Introduction 209
SECTION I. THE TROPICAL ZONES
CHAPTER I. GENERAL CHARACTERS OF THE TROPICAL
CLIMATE AND ITS EFFECTS ON VEGETATION AND FLORA
1. General Characters of the Tropical Climate, i. Atmospheric Precipitations. Rain.
Relative humidity. Clouds, ii. Heat. Temperature of the air. Healing by direct insolation,
iii. Lgiht and the Ultra-violet Rays. Intensity of the chemical rays of light. 2. Some
General Effects of the Tropical Climate on Plant-life. i. Processes that are chiefly
influenced by Heat. Cardinal points. Cases of rapid and slow growth. Transpiration in sun
and shade, ii. Physiological Action of Tropical Light on Plants. Protective measures against
intense light. Decomposition of chlorophyll. Position of foliage-leaves. Photic ration of shade-
plants, iii. Physiological Action of Atmospheric Precipitations on Plants. The controlling influ-
ence on the character of the vegetation and the periodic processes. Ombrophily and ombrophoby.
3. The Floristic Character of the Tropical Zones. Survey of the megathermic group of
forms ................ 211-240
CHAPTER II. THE PERIODIC PHENOMENA OF VEGETATION
WITHIN THE TROPICS
1. General Prevalence of Periodic Phenomena in the Functions of Plants. No
absolute period of rest. Rest only for some processes. Occurrence of periodicity in tropical
vegetation. 2. Periodicity in the Vegetative Domain, i. deaf-fall. Frequency of periodic
