TROPICAL DISTRICTS CONSTANTLY MOIST 285
On the whole, the vegetation of the constantly humid districts is clearly-
marked off from that of the periodically dry districts. Constantly humid
districts, whenever undisturbed by cultivation, are nearly alivays covered with
evergreen ram-forest ; periodically dry districts are occupied by deciduous
woodland and savannah. If precipitation be very slight even during the
rainy season, the character of vegetation becomes that of desert.
Hann's tropical district without a dry season includes, passing from east
to west: 1. In Australia, New Guinea with its neighbouring archipelagos,
the Bismarck and Solomon Islands, and most of the Pacific islands. 2. In
Asia, the Philippines, the Moluccas (for the most part), West Java, Celebes,
Borneo, Sumatra, and the southern end of Malacca. 3. In Africa, the
Mascarenes, Eastern Madagascar, Zanzibar with the neighbouring conti-
nental coast, and the district of the great African lakes. 4. In America,
the Brazilian coast district to the south of 15 S., the northern part of
the basin of the Amazon, Guiana, the Lesser Antilles (for the most
part), and the east coast of Central America.
In general, the boundaries of the district designated above coincide
with those of the tropical rain-forest. Wherever it has not been cleared,
the tropical rain-forest covers the lowlands and ascends the highlands as
far as the tropical climate extends. Here and there the tropical rain-forest
slightly oversteps the boundaries of the tropical climate proper, both in the
horizontal and vertical directions. Tropical rain-forest also occurs within
the range of the district with marked dry seasons, chiefly among mountains
that condense moisture, in districts of limited extent, where the climate
is constantly humid and occasions the appearance of the rain-forest, as in
the eastern Himalayas, in Burma, on the western slopes of the Nilgiris,
in West Ceylon, in Kamerun, and on the east coast of tropical
Australia.
A similar, but usually less luxuriant, evergreen forest frequently, but not
always, fringes the rivers of the periodically dry district. Such fringing
forests, as has been already stated, are independent of atmospheric
precipitations and will be discussed in the chapter dealing with the
edaphic influences.
2. GENERAL CHARACTER OF THE TROPICAL
RAIN-FOREST.
i. EXTERNAL ASPECT OF THE FOREST.
When the rain-forest is viewed from outside, say from a ship sailing by
a forest-clad coast, or from the summit of an elevated point rising above
a tract of forest, many distinctions between it and forest in temperate
regions meet the eye. The upper surface never exhibits a uniform tint,
but forms a richly varied mosaic, in which every shade of green is
represented : least frequent of these is the fresh green, say like that of
