3 88 ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. I
ii. INTERIOR OF THE FOREST.
The picture afforded by the interior of the rain-forest varies greatly
in individual cases. Many forests display a dense mass of foliage from the
ground up to the tops of the trees, through which we can only laboriously
cut our way with a bill-hook (Fig. 129); others are like immense, dark-
columned halls, which afford a free passage and a clear outlook in all
directions, where only a few ferns on the ground and on the stems of
the trees here and there relieve the monotony of brown tints. As a
matter of course these extreme forms are connected by intermediate ones.
The dense rain-forest with abundant underwood appears, at least from
my own observation, to be the commoner of the two (Fig. 133). In all
my tropical expeditions I have seen extensive tracts covered by it. The
light column-forest I know in particular on the mountains of Dominica,
where it is chiefly formed by a species of Canarium ; the same in a less
pure form with many tree-ferns I know in Trinidad. Kurz describes
similar open forests in Pegu. There appears to be less variety among the
trees in it than in the closed forest.
Within the forest, the botanist will at once endeavour to obtain a clear
idea of its systematic composition. As regards the large trees that
produce the general covering of the forest the labour is usually in vain.
Only felling the trees would secure the object in view, and to do this
is much more difficult than with us, for the trees are bound together by
a tangle of lianes. It does not moreover always lead to decisive results,
for not all trees are sufficiently characterized by their foliage, and many
of them blossom but seldom or do so only for a short period. I have
very rarely seen a useful result obtained by knocking down twigs.
The cries of flocks of parrots will often denote trees with ripe berries,
and in particular fig-trees, and then a search on the ground usually leads
to the discovery of some fruits. Occasionally, the area of ground cor-
responding to the particular tree is pretty thickly covered with fruits that
have fallen or have been thrown down, for instance with berries of
Myrtaceae and Meliaceae, and the easily recognizable seeds of a Myristica.
In other cases corollas or petals are found. One must always remember
the possibility of such fruits and flowers coming from epiphytes or
lianes. No doubt indeed can arise regarding cauliflorous species ; they are
however quite exceptional, in particular among the tall trees.
The bark of most trees shows much that is characteristic. In one case
it is smooth, in another furrowed ; in many Myrtaceae the bark peels off in
thin flakes or scales, in certain Leguminosae the surface is green ; in other
cases it is armed with thorns or with corky warts, or if it be wounded,
latex or resin exudes. Accurate investigation of such features would
certainly lead far towards identification. This is proved by the circum-
