Chai\ IV] TROPICAL DISTRICTS CONSTANTLY MOIST 289
stance that frequently natives can correctly name individual species of
trees by merely observing the characters that can be seen from the ground,
such as the nature of the bark, the thickness of the trunk, the occasional
plank- buttresses, which will be subsequently dealt with, and, at times, the
mode of branching. Analytical tables founded upon such characters,
which however are often very difficult to describe, would be of immense
value.
Most lianes — the woody climbing plants which usually occur in such
abundance in every virgin tropical forest — also withdraw their crown of
foliage from the view of the naturalist, who is confined to the ground, and
an attempt to pull them down is as a rule as useless as to fell them. But
in their case the anatomical structure of the stem exhibits so much that is
characteristic, that the determination, at least of the genus, is possible,
thanks to the excellent works of Radlkofer, Bureau, and Schenck l .
In order to obtain an idea of the systematic composition of the forest-
canopy, the botanist, even if he has frequently traversed and carefully
searched the virgin forest, must rely on ' Floras,' which, prepared chiefly
from collections made by natives, usually convey very incomplete informa-
tion. Much more useful are the works of the foresters, but these un-
fortunately are still entirely wanting in respect to tropical America
and tropical Africa. The works of Brandis, Kurz, and Koorders and
Valeton are sources of information regarding the systematic composition
of the forests of India and further India. Apart from the lianes and
herbaceous flora, it is comparatively easy to acquire the necessary know-
ledge of the systematic composition of the underwood, without which
a work on the physiology of the virgin forest is valueless. Not only
is the variety of foliage much greater than in Europe, but a number
of species bear flowers and fruit, though often in small quantities, for
months if not throughout the year. At the first glance, in a damp, cool
forest, the tree-ferns strike the eye, and these, like the ferns in general, can
be easily determined from the available herbaria. Small palms are seldom
absent ; for instance, in Brazil species of Geonoma occur, in Java species
of Pinanga. Here and there appear thickets of bamboos, or of climbing
ferns like Lygodium, or of species of Selaginella. The main mass of the
underwood and bushes, however, is formed by Dicotyledones. The Urti-
caceae are seldom absent, for instance species of Boehmeria, and in Asia
also species of Laportea, which are easily recognizable, even when not
flowering, by the form of their leaves and their hairs. In company with
these, shrubby Piperaceae will be found, in particular species of Artanthe,
and species of Ottonia with knotty stems and vertical, white, taper-like
spadices ; also the varied species of Croton, with inconspicuous flowers and
leaves with scales beneath. Less abundant, but highly characteristic, are
1 See p. 196.
SCH1MP1 R U
