290 ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. I
the Araliaceae, with their rosettes of large leaves on a stem that is either
simple or but slightly branched.
Although the above-mentioned types of shrubs or small trees are usually
provided with inconspicuous flowers, a fine show is made, especially in
tropical America, by a number of Melastomaceae with flowers of incompar-
able beauty. The most varied kinds of Rubiaceae, such as Pavetta and
species of Psychotria, frequently bear their beautiful thyrsoid inflorescences
of coral-red or white flowers on axes glistening in the same tints. If a sepal
is large, or blood-red in colour, we are dealing with a Mussaenda (Asia),
or a Warszewiczia (America). Certain Rubiaceae of the Javanese forests
have a highly repulsive but characteristic odour of excrement, for instance
Lysianthus purpureus. Among shrubs or small trees may also readily
be found, in America, flowering specimens of Vochysiaceae, Malvaceae
(Abutilon), Samydaccae (Casearia), Mutisiaceae (Stifftia), Solanaceae,
Mimoseae (Inga, Calliandra), and the beautiful species of Rrownia (Caesal-
piniaceae) with their bright red cauliflorous clusters of blossom. In tropical
Eastern Asia, again, besides the types already mentioned, in particular
species of Anonaceae, Ternstroemiaceae (Saurauja) and Myrsineae (Ardisia)
are conspicuous by their flowers, by which they can easily be determined.
But nearly always such species with abundant and beautiful blossoms are far
less numerous than those whose flowers are few or inconspicuous, as is
the case amongst Urticaceae, Piperaceae, Euphorbiaceae. One will also
find, especially at the height of the rainy season, very many shrubs and
small trees without either blossom or fruit.
The herbaceous vegetation is very poorly developed in the darkest part
of the virgin forest ; in the better-lighted portions, however, it is often
surprisingly luxuriant. The Scitamineae are certainly its most prominent
representatives, not only because of their dimensions and their large brightly
coloured inflorescences, but also frequently because of their great abundance
(Fig. 135). On the Lesser Antilles I frequently saw Heliconia Bihai, H.
caribaea, and other species taller than a man (Fig. 178) and forming
a dense thicket with their long-stalked leaves, between which the large
inflorescences projected with distichous, red keel-shaped bracts. Still
more striking, and at all events more varied in their appearance, are,
in the East Indies, the Zingiberaceae, several genera of which, such as
Elettaria, Hedychium, Zingiber, Costus, Alpinia. and many species form
little woods in the high-forest. Thus, in the forests of Java, one frequently
sees dense expanses of such Zingiberaceae taller than a man, with their
stiff distichous shoots allowing no other vegetation to grow between, and
their strange inflorescences, like bright red cabbage-heads, as in Costus
globosus, Elettaria sp., or like fiery stars, as in Elettaria coccinea, resting
with broad bases on the bare soil.
It is in fact a frequent phenomenon in tropical virgin forest that a wide
