Chap. IV] TROPICAL DISTRICTS CONSTANTLY MOIST 291
tract of ground should be essentially occupied by one herbaceous species to
the exclusion of all others, so that there exists a far greater uniformity in
the herbaceous than in the woody vegetation. In the forests of Ceylon
and Java I saw certain species of the acanthaceous genus Strobilanthus
with juicy brittle stems forming delicately foliaged bushes far exceeding
man's height and alone constituting the herbaceous vegetation over
immense tracts. I have seen many other herbaceous plants growing
socially, though not in such great multitudes, for instance species of
Impatiens, Cyrtandra, Elatostema, Selaginella. Grasses are quite insigni-
ficant as components of the tropical forests.
Among the more scattered plants, yet seldom absent from the rain-
forest, mention may be made of begonias (Fig. 136), which both in America
and Asia show great diversity of form, being sometimes small and erect,
sometimes climbers reaching high up tree-trunks and rocks ; also Aroideae
growing on the ground, with their variegated petioles, often reminding one
of snakes ; finally, as rare features, parasitic Balanophoraceae, saprophytic
orchids and Burmanniaceae.
The stems of the trees are covered with a rich flora of the most diverse
species of lianes and epiphytes, to which detailed reference will be made
hereafter. The most varied forms, often characterized by large expanses
of foliage or by splendid flowers, form these epedaphic gardens.
If we attempt to form a general conception of the changing aspects of
a virgin forest, the first point that strikes one is the struggle for light, and
the possibility of carrying on this struggle almost without hindrance is
afforded by the great and incessant humidity.
The struggle for light indeed prevails in the forests of every zone.
Everywhere it drives the vegetation from the shady depths in an upward
direction, but this struggle is nowhere so pronounced as in the evergreen
forests of tropical districts, in which individuals with slender stems and erect
weakly branched boughs eagerly strive after the light and at the same time
convey to the light a crowd of guests, including lianes whose weak stems
cling firmly to the scaffolding of the trees, and epiphytes which germinate
on the branches and thus from the very first secure a suitable degree
of illumination.
In the epiphytic vegetation, the struggle for light is the most thoroughly
successful, for it clothes the branches of the trees up to their extreme tips
with frequently large and even tree-like plants ; nor are the leaves spared,
for on them both mosses and Algae grow, and occasionally also flowering
orchids.
With the epiphytic vegetation also the struggle for light is the most
pronounced, and results in great destruction. One may frequently hear
a branch of a tree crack and break under the burden of its epedaphic
garden which has become too luxuriant (Fig. 134); and the trellis-work of
U 2
