296 ZONES AND REGIONS [Ft. Ill, Sect. I
struggle for existence ; the rest of the vegetation appears to have no
other object than to serve as supports for their funnels and to fill these
with dead leaves, until stems break under their weight, or perish — and this
the more frequently— owing to disturbances in the metabolism.
Many other types of plants also establish themselves on the bark of the
trees. The bases of the trunks are free from large epiphytes, but are wrapped
in a thin veil of delicate Hymenophyllaceae. Vaccinium lucidum produces
from a tuberous stem its twigs with box-like leaves and small flowers ;
Ficus diversifolia attracts attention by its leaves, which are ochre-coloured
beneath, and by its bright yellow figs of the size of peas. At many other
places in Java, but always at a lower altitude, Myrmecodia and Hydno-
phytum (Figs. 85, 86) — the widely known myrmecophytes with shoots
swollen like turnips — are attached to the stems and thicker branches.
Mosses and lichens, as epiphytes, are poorly developed in such low-lying
forests ; their true home is the higher cool, misty region.
In comparison with green, other colours are feebly represented. The
tropical rain-forest is however by no means so poor in plants with beautiful
flowers as is usually stated, possibly in accordance with Wallace, who
probably had in his mind an English meadow, and did not compare
forest with forest. Rather is the tropical forest in general richer in
colours than a European forest, especially in America, where varied and
abundant epiphytic Bromeliaceae are frequently provided with brightly
coloured flowers, fruits, or bracts.
Rhododendron javanicum and species of Medinilla have been already
mentioned as beautifully flowering plants of the Javanese forest. Many
terrestrial shrubs merit the same description, for instance species of the
rubiaceous Pavetta, with coral-red umbellate panicles, which in parts of
the Salak are quite common. Species of Mussaenda, belonging also to the
Rubiaceae, are commoner ; in them one of the sepals is developed into
a larger dazzling white leaf, whilst the small corollas stand out in perfect
orange-yellow. Beautiful beyond comparison is Dichroa Cyanites with
its lovely sky-blue and snow-white inflorescences ; and the species of the
ternstroemiaceous Saurauja, which may be described rather as small trees
than as shrubs, recall our cherry-trees by their delicate flowers. The
numerous Melastomaceae are more remarkable in Java for their peculiar
foliage than for the beauty of their flowers, which, except for Medinilla,
are far behind the tropical American species in brightness of colour
and size. Tolerably inconspicuous in the low-lying forests are Ardisia
semidentata, A. polyneura, and other species, whilst the well-named
Ardisia decus-montis forms one of the chief attractions of the more
elevated temperate rain-forest 1 .
1 See Sect. IV.
