Chap. IV] TROPICAL DISTRICTS CONSTANTLY MOIST 297
Species of Rubus, for instance R. glomeratus, R. chrysophyllus,
R. alceaefolius, are more remarkable for the beauty of their foliage than
of their flowers ; in addition they first appear as essential components
of the vegetation in forests situated higher up. Small trees and shrubs
with quite inconspicuous flowers, on the other hand, are very strongly
represented both as regards number of species and number of individuals.
To these belong representatives of the Urticaceae with loose pendulous
greenish inflorescences, such as species of Boehmeria and of Laportea;
species of Piper with erect taper-like inflorescences ; Euphorbiaceae, like
species of Croton and Phyllanthus ; and Lasianthus purpureus with small
violet flowers. Finally, as essential constituents of the vegetation in the
shade, may be mentioned small palms of the genus Pinanga, Pandanus
furcatus, and numerous tree-ferns.
The herbaceous vegetation displays a marvellous wealth of forms. Its
most prominent constituents are the social Zingiberaceae, the thickets of
which have already been described. Here and there appears a fine Musa
not in blossom. Wide tracts are covered by a dense shrubby Strobi-
lanthus, the transparent stems of which break like glass as one passes
among them, and the delicate foliage of which is rendered gay by fairly
large bright red flowers. In other places the herbaceous vegetation is
hardly up to the knee, and is chiefly composed of Cyrtandra nemorosa and
a species of Elatostema ; from the dark green level surface there rise
up isolated taller plants, such as the large-leaved Begonia robusta, Pollia
thyrsiflora, more conspicuous for its cobalt-blue berries than for its white
inflorescences, Dianella montana, which agrees with the last-named plant
in the rare colour of its fruit and in that of its flowers, Disporum multi-
florum with pendent violet campanulate flowers, Polygala venenosa with
large yellow flowers, and many others.
If with the hand we push aside the leaves of the herbs clothing the soil,
we can see, between the turgid brittle stems, the soil covered with de-
cayed sodden leaves. The gaps between the plants appear large, though
they are completely arched over by the canopy formed by the foliage of
the herbs, and they support no vegetation that is visible to the naked eye.
One is however surprised to find a flora of flowers which are invisible from
above the leafy roof, and spring in particular from the stalks of Cyrtandra
nemorosa, but also from the stems of Saurauja cauliflora, which produces
its dense red and white bunches of flowers only at its base, quite hidden
among the herbage.
Trees are the least striking constituents of the rain-forest ; the plank-
buttresses alone distinguish many of them at first glance from the trees
of a European forest. The finest tree in these forests is Altingia excelsa,
one of the Hamamelidaceae, the rasamala of the natives, which attains
a maximum height of about 60 meters and a diameter of stem of 112
