Chap. IV] TROPICAL DISTRICTS CONSTANTLY MOIST 301
other countries. Yet it does not contain, as for instance do the forests of Brazil,
Guiana, and the West Indies, large and small forms of plants crowded together in
rich confusion, so as to utilize the available space to the utmost conceivable degree ;
in it there is rather a rich repetition of certain forms developed into giants which
invest it with an imposing uniformity.
' It admits the visitor, as it were, into a vast, green, vaulted hall. The roof of
foliage is raised aloft twenty meters above the ground by countless columns, often
marvellous in shape. Huge stems, without a branch, straight as an arrow and
cylindrical, and mingled with them weaker ones that are gnarled, bent, and re-
peated^' branched, all lose themselves overhead in the loose mass of leaves, which
is traversed at many places by richly foliaged lianes. A subdued, mysterious light
enfolds the bright-barked, silvery-grey or brownish boles, whilst here and there, as
in a church, the sun's rays play in quivering golden beams. Evergreen trees as tall
as our finest German trees constitute the chief mass of the forest, with their tops
closely interlaced. Above this dense leaf-canopy that is interwoven with climbing
plants, mighty deciduous trees, resembling our beech-tree, project and do not display
their finely branched crowns before a height of thirty to fifty meters. Most of the
trunks exhibit in most striking manner a tendency to produce buttresses at their
base V
After a detailed account of the buttresses and of the lianes, the author continues :
' Epiphytes never become attached to the bright smooth stems ; even mosses are
relatively uncommon. The underwood is scantily represented, only dense collections
of one leafy plant with straight, very long, climbing stems occupy certain tracts.
A layer of dry foliage covers the ground and, embedded in it, fallen pieces of wood
lie mouldering. Wherever one of the towering giant-stems, in a crashing fall, has
crushed all the forest-growth beneath, daylight streams through the wide gap in the
leaf-canopy and humbler forms of plants have established themselves, whilst young
trees struggle upwards in keen rivalry. . . . Even though the mass of foliage, formed
of layers piled one above the other, appears to constitute a completely closed cover
to all that stands beneath, yet its texture is loose ; the leaves for the most part are
arranged in tufts at the end of the twigs, and the latter are not so much subdivided as
in our German forest-trees. Hence, everywhere, rays of light can pass through the
leaf-canopy, and, even though repeatedly interrupted, eventually reach the ground.'
The East African rain-forest is more poorly developed than is the West
African, both in expanse and luxuriance of vegetation ; it appears to be
chiefly confined to the mountain gorges. The flora of the rain-forest of
Usambara has been studied by Engler : —
Among its already known trees, the following among others are remarkable for
their height or other qualities :— Mesogyne insignis ; Paxiodendron usambarense
(Lauraceae) ; Albizzia fastigiata ; Sorindeia usambarensis (Anacardiaceae) ; Stearo-
dendron Stuhlmannii (Guttiferae) ; Chrysophyllum Msolo (Sapotaceae). These
trees are 30 to 60 meters high. Smaller trees are, for example, Ficus Volkensii
(15 meters); Myrianthus arborea (10 meters, Urticaceae) ; Dasylepis integra (up to
10 meters, Bixaceae) ; Oxyanthus speciosus (up to 10 meters, Rubiaceae). As
1 Pechuel-Losche, op. cit., pp. 142, 145.
