3 o2 ZONES AND REGIONS [Ft. Ill, Sect. I
shrubs and dwarf trees of the underwood are found species of Piper, Cassia, Brucea
(Simarubaceae) ; Pycnocoma(Euphorbiaceae), Allophylus(Sapindaceae), Alsodeiopsis
(Olacaceae), Haronga (Hypericaceae), Oncoba (Bixaceae), Clerodendron (Verbe-
naceae), Whitfieldia (Acanthaceae), Pavetta, Chasalia and Psychotria (Rubiaceae),
Vernonia (Compositae), and a low tree-fern (Alsophila Holstii). The herbaceous
vegetation is chiefly formed of ferns, to which may be added a few Scitamineae,
Urticaceae, Euphorbiaceae. Lianes are rare in the dense forest ; epiphytes consist
chiefly of ferns, in a less degree of orchids and species of Peperomia \
v. TROPICAL RAIN-FOREST IN AMERICA.
The tropical virgin forest of America has very properly acquired the
highest reputation. The ordinary descriptions of tropical virgin forest
chiefly refer to it and are taken from the works of Humboldt, Martius,
Schamburgk, and St.-Hilaire. I have visited the virgin forest in several
parts of tropical America, the Antilles, Venezuela, and Brazil. I found it,
in many ways, far more majestic than in Java, owing to the larger dimen-
sions of the trees, the greater thickness of the liane-stems, and the greater
abundance of epiphytes. The essential features of the physiognomy are,
however, nearly identical in both lands, in accordance with the similarity
of environment in both cases. Yet not only in the West Indies, but also
in Brazil and South Mexico — and probably in other parts of America —
there is an additional characteristic that I did not find in Java and which
has not been recorded in regard to the Cis-gangetic Indian forests. This
is the extraordinary wealth in aerial roots descending vertically and
unbranched through the air, the ' cipos ' of the Brazilians, which form
tightly stretched cords connecting the climbing and epiphytic Araceae and
Clusiaceae with the nutritive soil (Fig. 152).
Among the characteristics of the flora of the tropical American rain-
forest, the most striking is the presence of Bromeliaceae, which are nearly
always epiphytic and usually form an important constituent of the vegeta-
tion, remarkable for their peculiar forms and splendid colouring. The
epiphytic Cactaceae, in particular species of Rhipsalis, are seldom absent
and are easily recognizable.
In opposition to a widespread error, it must be insisted that palm-trees are by
no means necessary as prominent constituents of the tropical rain-forests, in either
the New World or the Old World. Representatives of the family are possibly present
as a rule. These are, however, for the most part small forms, or prickly palm-
lianes. Tall erect palms are usually feebly represented in the forest, for inftance in
Java, but in Dominica I have seen Euterpe oleracea, and in South Brazil Euterpe
edulis (Fig. 141), growing abundantly in the virgin forest. Fig. 130 shows a forest
in Samoa, rich in palms.
1 Engler, op. cit., p. 82.
