CONTENTS xxv
PAGES
2. Sclerophyllous Woodland in Mediterranean Countries. Maquis. Physiognomy.
Systematic composition. Characteristic plants. 3. Sclerophyllous Woodland in Cape
Colony. Low bushes. Rarity of trees. Prevalence of small linear leaves. 4. Sclerophyllous
Woodland in South and West Australia. Oecological resemblance to other sclero-
phyllous woodlands. Prevalence of narrow elliptical leaves. The South-West Australian
' scrub,' according to Schomburgk and according to Behr. 5. Sclerophyllous Woodland in
California. Oecological and systematic character. Shrubs. High forest of Sequoia semper-
virens. The ' chaparrals.' 6. Sclerophyllous Woodland in Chili. Oecology and systematic
composition ......... ..... 507-541
CHAPTER VI. WOODLAND AND GRASSLAND CLIMATES IN THE
COLD TEMPERATE BELTS
1. General Considerations. 2. Forest and Prairie in the United States of North
America. Four districts based on climate and vegetation. Mean rainfall in the four districts.
The winds. 3. Climate and Vegetation in Russia. Climate of the steppes. Dissimilarity
of the winds in Northern and Southern Russia. Climatic conditions of the forests in Central
and Northern Russia. 4. The Hungarian Plain. Hunfalvy on the Hungarian steppe-
climate. 5. Cold Temperate Eastern Asia. Conditions in regard to precipitations. Distri-
bution of forest and grassland. Summary ........ 542—555
CHAPTER VII. FOREST FORMATIONS OF THE COLD TEMPERATE
BELTS
1. General Oecology of the Summer-Forest, i. Introduction. Tropophilous character
of the forest in the cold temperate belts. Coniferous and broad-leaved forests, ii. The
Broad-Leaved Summer-Forest. Comparison with the rain-forest. Luxuriant development
near sheets of water. Effects of light. Underwood. Lianes. Absence or rarity of higher
epiphytes. Optimum illumination of the shade-flora. Demands on light of Hepatica triloba
and other shade-plants. Structure of the trees. The arrangement of their branches ; their
foliage. Comparison of the trees with those of xerophilous tropical woodland. Structure of
the shrubs. iii. The Coniferous Forest. Illumination. Xerophilous structure of the trees.
Tropophilous mode of life. Evergreen broad-leaved trees. 2. Special Illustrations, i. The
Forests of North America. Differentiation of the North American forest according to Sargent.
The subpolar or northern forest belt. The Atlantic and Pacific northern forest. The Pacific
forests are coniferous. The Pacific Coast forest. Its northern part. Forest of the Sierra Nevada.
Sequoia gigantea. The Pacific Interior forest. Stunted character. Atlantic forests. Province
of Pinus Strobus. Its oecology and flora. The broad-leaved summer-forest of the Mississippi
and of the Atlantic plain. Forests of North Carolina according to W. W. Ashe. ii. The
Forests of Europe. Virgin forest in Bohemia according to Goeppert. Forest on the eastern
shore of the Black Sea. iii. The Forests of Siberia and Eastern Asia. Comparison of the
Siberian forest with that of subpolar North America. Physiognomy of the Siberian forest
according to Middendorff. Eastern Asiatic forests in Kamchatka ; in Saghalin ; on the Amur.
The summer-forest of Japan according to Rein and Mayr. iv. The Forests of Tierra del Fuego.
Their character according to Dusen .......... 556-590
CHAPTER VIII. GRASSLAND FORMATIONS OF THE COLD
TEMPERATE BELTS
1. General Oecology of Grassland. Meadow and steppe. Protective measures in
meadows against winter drought. Hygrophilous character during the vegetative season. Xero-
philous structure of steppe-plants. 2. The Vegetation in Meadow Districts and Steppe
Districts, i. Meadow. Meadow in Europe. Meadow in Eastern Asiatic r^rkland and in
North America, ii. Steppe. Western part of the North American prairie. The prairie in
