304 ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. I
work, and know it only from the abstract given by Drude \ Of the
luxuriance of the rain-forest in Samoa a vivid representation is given in
Fig. 130.
3. OECOLOGICAL CHARACTERISTICS OF PLANTS
GROWING IN THE RAIN-FOREST.
The plants of the evergreen tropical rain-forest are markedly hygro-
philous, and, with the exception of some epiphytes which are exposed to
quite peculiar conditions of existence, they possess a corresponding
structure. All the features that in an earlier chapter we recognized as
characteristic of the vegetation in a very moist climate, such as feeble
formation of cork and of fibres in the axial parts, ombrophilous foliage,
hydathodes, dripping-points to the leaves, are strongly marked in them.
The last-mentioned peculiarities of hygrophilous plants appear to be more
strongly developed in the tropics than in the temperate zones, and, for the
most part, have been first observed there.
In the following paragraphs a description will be given of some of these
peculiarities of the tropical rain-forest, which without being entirely absent
from other zones yet in the tropics alone attain great importance and
determine the oecological features of the vegetation.
i. TREES AND SHRUBS OE THE RAIN-FOREST,
The stems of the trees whose crowns form the leaf-canopy that is usually
invisible from below are of very unequal thickness, and usually thinner than
in less dense and humid virgin forests. Many of them are supported at
their base by buttresses, which sometimes consist of cylindrical roots spring-
ing from the stem at some distance from the ground, as in species of
Cecropia and Myristica ; but much more frequently these buttresses assume
the form of plank-like outgroivths of the base of the trunk and of the upper-
most roots, and they may be termed plank-buttresses (Fig. 143). These
plank-buttresses, radiating from the base of many tree-trunks, reach up to
a height mostly of one or two meters above the ground, and thus form
deep niches, in which there is not infrequently ample space for two or
three men. The thickness of the planks is often so small that they can
be employed as tables without any further manipulation. Such buttresses
are by no means common to all the trees of the rain-forest, but to the
minority only ; they chiefly occur on very tall stems that are comparatively
thin above, but also on the massive stems of fig-trees.
As in the case of so many other phenomena of tropical vegetation, the botanic
garden at Buitenzorg affords a splendid opportunity for studying plank-buttresses
of different shapes, and indeed, as is not usually the case in the forest, on trees
' Drude, Pflanzengeographie, p. 495.
