308 ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. I
Jagera, Hopea. In the case of European forest trees, on the other hand,
higher grades, usually 5-8, of branches prevail (Wiesner).
' Even in the largest trees I have seen in the tropics, the number of grades
of branches never exceeded five (Ficus elastica, which has often only two to four,
F. religiosa, Pterocarpus indica, Altingia excelsa, Grevillea robusta). The numerous
observations of Koorders lead to the same result ; exceptionally, however, higher
grades of branches occur. The complication of the branching concerns only the
twigs that immediately bear the foliage. Those portions of the axes that have
become leafless are throughout only feebly branched.'
The leaves of the trees in the rain-forest are highly diversified, frequently
of firm leathery consistence and very glossy, but seldom are they
finely pinnate or felted with hairs. They are, as Wiesner has explained
in detail 1 , usually set obliquely as regards the zenith, often aggregated
in tufts at the ends of long bare axes (Fig. 145).
The shrubs of the rain-forest, like the trees, are for the most part
sparsely branched when compared with the shrubs of the forests of Central
Europe. Their leaves are usually large, delicately membranous, seldom
coriaceous.
ii. TERRESTRIAL HERBS OF THE RAIN-FOREST.
The terrestrial herbs (Figs. 135, 136) are sometimes erect, sometimes
creeping, feebly branched, and nearly always provided with elongated axes ;
in accordance with the great humidity dense rosettes do not occur.
Wherever the shade is denser the soil bears only delicate weeds, which,
by their weak roots, their large and excessively delicate leaves, the scanty
development of fibres and of vessels in their turgid brittle stems, exhibit in
the clearest manner the influence of moisture in both the soil and air.
Various Rubiaceae and Urticaceae are illustrations of these features.
Many herbs growing on the ground of the virgin forest are provided with
wonderful markings on their foliage, in the way of white, silvery, golden, or
red spots and stripes, which have raised many of them to the rank of choice
ornamental plants, like species of Begonia, of Marantaceae, of Orchidaceae.
Stahl considered these coloured flecks as devices for increasing transpira-
tion. His discussion of this subject is sagacious and suggestive, but,
owing to the want of quite conclusive experiments, is still too hypothetical
to merit detailed consideration.
Not unfrequently, particularly in very moist and shady spots, the foliage
of the herbs exhibits the velvety surface (Fig. 24), the connexion of which
with the concentration of light and furtherance of transpiration has already
been described 2 . In similar places, the foliage of many plants, especially
species of Selaginella and Trichomanes, glistens with a metallic blue
lustre.
1 Wiesner, op. cit., pp. 73-4. 2 See p. 19.
