Chap. IV] TROPICAL DISTRICTS CONSTANTLY MOIST 309
A peculiar form of vegetation is produced by the Hymenophyllaceae
(Fig. 146), never absent from the deepest shade of the forest, which, though
they often clothe the bases of
tree-trunks as epiphytes, yet
also occur on the ground and
on rocks, and in any case do
not assume the peculiar char-
acters of epiphytic plants. The
Hymenophyllaceae (Hymeno-
phyllum and Trichomanes) il-
lustrate the great humidity of
the virgin forest better than any
other plants, as they have many
features in common with aquatic
plants. Their delicate leaves
usually consist of only one layer
of cells, excepting over the
veins, absorb water by their
whole surface, and shrivel up
quickly whenever the atmo-
sphere is not wellnigh saturated
with water - vapour. As in
aquatic plants, the greatly re-
duced roots play merely a
subordinate part as organs of fixation, or may be entirely absent : .
Fig. 146. Hymenophyllaceae which are epiphytic
on tree-ferns in the tropical rain-forest of America at
Blumenau, South Brazil, i. Trichomanes angustatum,
Carm. 2. Trichomanes sinuosum, Rich.
iii. LIANES OF THE RAIN-FOREST.
The most peculiar components of the rain-forest, those which first strike
travellers and are most frequently mentioned by them, are lianes and
epiphytes. Both these forms of vegetation, it is true, also occur in other
forests, and are not confined to the tropics, but, as has already been shown-,
the tropical rain-forest is the original home of nearly all the higher epi-
phytes, even of those that occur in open dry tracts of country, and
woody lianes have in the tropical rain-forest, if not their sole place of
origin,, yet certainly the site of their most luxuriant development and of
their greatest diversity of form. Lianes and epiphytes exhibit a connexion,
to this extent, that a forest rich in woody lianes is rich usually in
epiphytes also, and the representatives of both these guilds frequently
belong to the same families. The origin of both forms is to be traced
back to the same factors, the struggle for light assisted by abundance
of moisture ; they are connected by intermediate forms, and many epiphytes
have apparently been evolved from lianes.
1 See in particular the cited works of Prantl and Mettenius. 2 See p. 198.
