3 IQ
ZONES AND REGIONS
[Pt. Ill, Sect. I
The oecological peculiarities of lianes, so far as their general features are
concerned, have been described in a former chapter 1 , but the few types,
distinguished there according to their modes of climbing, give no idea of
the rich diversity in the forms of tropical lianes, and the diagnostic
characters which were considered are usually withdrawn from view within
the forest, excepting in the case of root-climbers. Many lianes belonging
to quite different oecological types closely resemble one another in their
lower portions, which alone are visible, whilst others are easily recogniz-
able by their mode of growth,
^V '^PVm/^ H and in particular by the shapes
of their stems 2 .
Climbing palms form one
of the most characteristic and
frequent types among lianes
of the tropical rain - forest ;
they include types of Cala-
mus and some allied small
genera in tropical Asia and
Australia, species of Oncocala-
mus and other Raphieae in
tropical Africa, and of Des-
moncus in tropical America.
The slender, tough, and often
prickly stems, well known as
' rattans,' in many tropical
forests form extensive con-
fused masses (cane - brakes),
which can be cut through only
with the greatest trouble by
means of the bill-hook, and
which lie in immense coils on
the ground. One portion of a
stem that had been torn down was measured by Treub, and was 240 meters
in length (Fig. 148).
Their manner of climbing is even more characteristic of palm-lianes than
is their mode of growth. In Calamus and the Raphieae, the rachis of the
leaf is prolonged into a long flexible flagellum, provided with hooked
thorns, and this, as an organ resembling a tendril but not irritable, most
effectively fixes the leafy end of the shoot to the branches of the support-
ing tree. When once the summit of the supporting tree has been reached
by the liane, and hence its further growth upwards is prevented, the older
1 See p. 192.
2 See Schenck, I and II, regarding the subject of this and the following paragraphs:
Fig. 147. Gnetum scandens on a coconut palm,
a photograph hy G. Karsten.
From
