Chap. IV] TROPICAL DISTRICTS CONSTANTLY MOIST 335
statements regarding this subject occur in the works of Potter, Stahl, and
Wiesner already referred to.
The admirable researches of Raciborski regarding the structure ofjloiver-
buds were conducted partly on tropical plants. Characteristic distinctions
depending on climate between the flower-buds of tropical plants and plants
of other zones were mentioned by him in a few cases only. Yet the peculiar
phenomenon, that flower-buds arc immersed in water, or contain water in
their calyx until shortly before their authesis, appears to be limited to humid
tropical districts. For instance, in the West Indies I found the boat-
shaped bracts in the inflorescence of
Heliconia Bihai (Fig. 1 78) and Heliconia
caribaea always full of rain-water ; the
flower-buds were below water-level, but
shortly before opening they raised
themselves above it by curving sharply.
In like manner, in Nidularium (Fig.
165) I saw the short inflorescence
nestling between the bracts always
submerged in a cistern supplied with
rain and dew, out of which the open
flowers protruded singly. The boat-
like bracts of the long distichous in-
florescence of species of Vriesea, for
instance Vriesea incurvata, contain a
mucilaginous liquid, which completely
surrounds the bud and is probably
secreted by the plant. The latter is
certainly true of the similar mucila-
ginous liquid, which accumulates in the
sac-like fused pairs of bracts surround-
ing the flower-buds of certain Acan-
thaceac (Fig. 179), which are so tensely
filled that a puncture causes the liquid
to spurt out violently. Flower-buds with a water-holding calyx were first
described by Treub in connexion with Spathodea campanulata, and have
formed the subject of a comprehensive and conclusive monograph by
Koordcrs which has brought to light a number of interesting details,
especially as regards secreting hydathodes. The number of species with
water-holding calyces is small — so far as is known only thirteen species,
limited to representatives of the families of Bignoniaceae, Solanaceae,
Verbenaceae (Fig. 180), Scrophulariaceae, and Zingiberaceae — whereas
water-holding bracts are very common.
Fig. 177. Mangifera indica. End of twig.
The yonng leaves flaccidly pendent. Half
the natural size. After Stahl.
