33$ ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. I
carpus integrifolia, Covellia lepicarpa, Sterculia rubiginosa, Oreocnida major,
Diospyros sp., Averrhoa Bilimbi, and others. The cauliflory is very peculiar in
Stelechocarpus Burakol, a small tree belonging to the Anonaceae, for in it the female
flowers spring in tufts out of thick warts on the stem, whilst the smaller male flowers
shoot out of the axils of leaves that have just fallen from the twigs. In Taxotrophis
javanica, on the other hand, I found the male flowers definitely on the stem, but the
female flowers in the axils of leaves on young twigs.
Cauliflory either excludes the formation of flowers on young twigs, as in
cases enumerated above, or the flowers may appear on young twigs as well
as on the old cortex. Frequently cauliflory appears to be an occasional
feature only.
Among plants that are not exclusively, but are only occasionally cauliflorous, are,
for instance, Saurauja pendula, Ficus cuspidata, Capura alata, Medinilla laurifolia,
Drimyspermum longifolium, Oreocnida major, Sterculia rubiginosa, Brownea
coccinea.
All possible transitions connect typical cauliflory with the production of
flowers on young twigs. Thus a number of species are cauliflorous only
on relatively young branches ; for instance Flacourtia inermis, Evodia
Batjan. In other cases the flowers appear on the defoliated base of
a foliage shoot, the upper part of which bears leaves ; for instance species
of Lasianthus, Goniothalamus Tapis, Gonocaryum myrospermum. In
a number of herbaceous plants the flowers appear only in the axils of
fallen leaves, as in Campelia marginata, Agalmyla staminea, Cyrtandra
nemorosa. According to Johow, the flowers of several Sapotaceae occur
only on two-year-old defoliated portions of the twigs.
The separation in space of the vegetative and reproductive functions —
for this is the subject under discussion — is exhibited more strikingly than
in true cauliflory, wherever certain leafless or very weakly foliaged twigs
springing from the main stem or from the thickest branches alone are fertile,
whilst the crown remains purely vegetative. Such twigs, for instance,
encircle, like lianes, the lofty stem of Couroupita guianensis, and bear
spherical fruits as large as one's head.
In Ficus sp. ' Minahassae ' (Fig. 183), thin whip-like, scale-leaved twigs
spring from the main stem and the thickest branches, on which little figs
are grouped in small capitula. In Ficus rhizocarpa such twigs spring out
close to the ground only l . In Anona rhizantha, which has been investigated
by Eichler, the fertile twigs are subterranean at their base and only their
flowering tips project above the ground.
The question has often been raised why cauliflory is so much commoner
in the tropics than in temperate zones, and the distribution has usually
been associated with the conditions of pollination. To me it seems most
probable that it is owing to the weaker development or less degree of
1 I noticed both species at Buitenzorg.
