340 ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. I
Nevertheless, as was stated before 1 , saprophytic fungal vegetation in
tropical forests is much less striking than it is in the cool forests of higher
latitudes, for in the tropics it is chiefly composed of small and even
microscopic forms, and includes but few large Hymenomycetes. Alfred
Moller, in his mycological contributions from South Brazil -, has, however,
proved that very striking and large forms of fungi are not wanting among
tropical humus-plants.
Phanerogamic saprophytes are in the number of species much more
numerous between the tropics than beyond them, and are largely inhabi-
tants of the dampest and shadiest rain -forest. Yet even there they do
not strike the eye, but this is partly due to the fact that the commonest
species are for the most part very small and delicate, so that even when
very numerous they do not make much show. The few larger forms —
those about the size of our Neottia or of Monotropa are to be reckoned
amongst them — as far as my observations go, occur only singly, whilst
many of the small forms grow socially and occur sporadically in abundance ;
for instance the orchidaceous Wullschlagelia aphylla and the burmanni-
aceous Apteria setacea, in Dominica ; the gentianaceous Voyria trinitatis,
in Trinidad ; Lecanorchis javanica and Burmannia (Gonyanthes) Candida,
neither of which is quite devoid of chlorophyll, in Java. These, however,
are isolated productions. I have often roamed for hours through tropical
rain-forests in America and Java without seeing a single phanerogamic
saprophyte 3 .
The saprophytes of the tropical rain-forest occur both on firm, mainly
mineral, soil which is however permeated with humus-solutions, as well
as on loose, slightly decomposed mould and on still coherent though
rotting stems and branches. Thus, in Dominica, we found Burmannia
capitata on decomposing stems and branches, and the sole habitat on
which I found Epipogon nutans in Java was the rotten trunk of a tree,
which in Germany might have led me to expect Buxbaumia indusiata
but not a saprophytic orchid. I found however on this trunk, crowded
together as in a nest, twenty specimens of this remarkable Epipogon in all
stages of development.
In respect to their occurrence as revealed by the naked eye, holoparasites
show relations not very different from those presented by saprophytes, but
large forms are more frequent among them. For instance, I observed
far more numerous large parasitic Polyporeae on trees than large sapro-
phytic fungi. Among phanerogamic parasites, as among saprophytes,
social species are common. This is, for instance, true to a large extent
of the Javanese Balanophora elongata, but I know this plant only in the
1 See p. 226. 2 Alf. Moller, II-V.
s Even the sharp eyes of Pa-Idang, the excellent guide to the Javanese forest, could not
in such cases discover ' white orchids.'
