CHAPTER V
TROPICAL DISTRICTS WITH PRONOUNCED
DRY SEASONS
i. General Characteristics of the Vegetation in Periodically Dry Tropical
Districts. Formations. Xerophilous trees. Xerophilous shrubs. Lianes. Epiphytes.
2. Woodland Formations in Periodically Dry Tropical Districts, i. General
Remarks. Transformation in woodland vegetation by gradual transition from constantly
humid to periodically dry districts. Chief types of woodland : monsoon-forest, savannah-
forest, thorn-forest, ii. Tropophilous and Xerophilous Woodland in India. Forest
vegetation in Pegu according to Kurz. Forests of Tectona grandis in East Java,
iii. Woodland in Tropical East Africa. Engler's description of the formations, iv.
Tropopliilous and Xerophilous Woodland in Tropical America. Savannah-forest in
Venezuela. Thorn-bushland (caatinga) of Brazil. Thorn-bushland on the limestone
hills in Minas Geraes. 3. Tropical Grassland Formations, i. General Character of
Savannah, ii. Savannah in Africa. Savannah on the Loango coast according to
Pechuel-Losche. The baobab. East African savannah according to H. Meyer and
Engler. iii. Savan/iah in America. The llanos. The campos of Brazil according to
Warming.
1. GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS OF THE VEGETATION IN
PERIODICALLY DRY TROPICAL DISTRICTS.
Tropical districts with either one or two pronounced dry seasons,
several months long, particularly occupy the interior of continents, and
include much greater areas than do those with a constantly humid climate.
Their vegetation never attains the luxuriance of the rain-forest, and above
all bears the impress of a less favourable environment. The dry periods
bring the vegetation of the tropics oecologically nearer to that of the zones
that are cold in winter, because physiological dryness of soil is caused by
a scarcity of atmospheric precipitations, as well as by cold.
Whilst the constantly humid districts are uniformly clad with evergreen
rain-forest, the periodically dry districts present a much more varied
appearance as regards vegetation, inasmuch as slight differences in the
climate cause a rapid change in the type of formation, and edaphic
influences are much more effective than where the soil is always moist.
Districts with very abundant rainfall during the wet season, if they have
pronounced dry seasons accompanied by great heat, are clad with luxuriant
forests the trees of which lose their hygrophilous foliage during the dry
