Chai\ V] TROPICAL DISTRICTS WITH DRY SEASONS 347
Pechuel-Losche gives the following vivid picture of the West African
savannah : —
' Many of these characteristic plants are developed only as gnarled and
deformed shrubs or dwarf-trees, but many also as lofty trees, some species
even ranking among the giants of the vegetable kingdom. They all,
however, have this in common, that they thrive only in the open country,
in the sunny, well-aired, and dry grassland ; it is true, that in places they
may combine to form light groves and resemble the thin oakwoods of our
pasture-lands, but they never appear in the form of forests. On the
contrary, they perish beyond recall in the cover of a well-grown forest, and
therefore inhabit neither fringing-forest nor rain-forest. Yet they occur,
not infrequently, on the borders of the savannah, where grassland begins.'
The majority of the trees of xerophilous woodland and savannah are of
low stature, with a relatively thick stem, which is usually invested with an
extremely fissured thick bark ; the crown is frequently arranged in tiers
(Fig. 184), more often however it is umbrella-shaped, and may even be
flattened almost like a disk (Fig. 185). Umbrella-trees figure in all descrip-
tions of the savannah and of the open forest-formations of the tropics,
I have seen them determining the physiognomy of the vegetation in the
savannah of Venezuela, and also occurring in the alpine savannah of Java,
which will be subsequently described. Warming portrays them, although
in less regular form, in connexion with the campos of Brazil. Hans
Meyer says of the East African savannah : ' Whether a tree have a single
stem, or like a shrub ramifies from close to the ground, in either case it
strives first to grow as high as possible and then to expand horizontally,
like a mushroom or an umbrella. It is always fiat above as if it were
clipped. Thousands and thousands of these usually greyish-brown
umbrella-trees, scattered over the grass, through which the red soil gleams
and which is brown during the greater part of the year, impart a peculiar
physiognomy to the landscape 1 .' Brandis mentions as characteristic of
the open, dry bush-formations of Southern India, Acacia planifrons
(Fig. 126), called umbrella-thorn because its crown, consisting of a mass of
twisted knotty branches, thorns, and finely pinnate leaves, spreads out at the
top of the stem like an umbrella. That the umbrella-form is an adapta-
tion to the climate appears from the fact that it occurs under similar
external conditions in representatives of very different families, for instance
the Mimosaceae, Caesalpiniaceae (Cassia), Burseraceae, Myrtaceae. As
a protective device against excessive transpiration, such as might be
expected in an open xerophilous formation, this spreading out of the foliage
appears to be highly unsuitable. As a protection against the mechanical
and desiccating action of the wind, it is, on the contrary, proper to the end
in view, as it offers a narrow edge to the force of the wind. It is evident
1 Engler, op. cit., p. 58.
