Chai\ V] TROPICAL DISTRICTS WITH DRY SEASONS 349
in harmony with the climatic conditions. Evergreen trees, on the other
hand, usually have simple, often very hairy, leaves, which in many cases
contain so much silica that they assume a consistency resembling sheet-
metal, and, in the wind, rattle with a metallic sound, as in the proteaceous
Rhopala complicata, a characteristic tree of the llanos. The foliage-buds
are provided with a coating of protective scales as thick as, or even thicker
than, that of trees of the temperate zones (Fig. 186). Only the flowers
Fig. 186. Xerophilous foliage-buds. From the Brazilian campos. Left hand : Myrcia longipes.
Centre : Eugenia Jaboticaba. Right hand : Eugenia dysenterica. After Warming.
apparently dispense with a corresponding protection, and even frequently
possess large delicate corollas, although they often open at the height of
the dry season, and therefore demand large quantities of water for trans-
piration.
The volume of the wood in comparison with that of the foliage is greater
than in hygrophilous trees, and the cortex
is frequently covered by a massive scaly
bark (Fig. 187).
Besides the protective devices against
drought that have been mentioned, and
which occur and are similarly differen-
tiated in xerophytes of higher latitudes,
there are among the tropical woody plants
cases of special and very peculiar adapta-
tion. Thus many tropical trees owe the
faculty not only of growing in very dry
regions, but also of attaining large and
even gigantic dimensions, to the fact that
they store up large supplies of water for
the dry season. Amongst these trees is
the mighty baobab (Adansonia digitata) of the African savannah, which
will be dealt with subsequently ; in addition the wonderful bottle-trees
(Cavanillesia arborea (Willd.), K. Schum., and other Bombaceae) of the open
thorn-bush of Central Brazil, the trunks of which, swollen like a cask up to
a thickness of five meters (Fig. 193), serve as water-reservoirs ; also, in the
same forests, Spondias tuberosa (Anacardiaceae), the tuberous swellings
of whose roots become filled with water. Finally, in contrast with rain-
Fig. 1S7. Sweetia dasycarpa. From
the Brazilian campos. Transverse section
through the stem. After Warming.
