Chap. V] TROPICAL DISTRICTS WITH DRY SEASONS 353
the forest is thin ; trunks and branches are thick and gnarled, covered with
a rich epiphytic flora. Lianes and shrubs are poorly represented, whereas
the soil is covered with a turf composed either of grass and perennial
herbs, or of grass alone.
Kurz distinguishes two forms of his ' mixed forest' — ' upper mixed forest' and 'lower
mixed forest.' In the ' upper ' the trees are taller than in the ' lower,' but less varied.
Large bamboos play an important part in the 'upper mixed forest' (Fig. 189) ;
teak is as a rule present ; Sterculia villosa and S. urens, Milletia Brandi-
siana, Grewia elastica, Duabanga grandiflora, Erythrina stricta and E. suberosa
are the characteristic trees, but many other species are represented. Shrubs are
scantily and badly developed, but we have Helicteres plebeja, Thespesia Lampas,
Grewia hirsuta, and others. Lianes are also few in number, represented amongst
others by Combretum, Calycopteris, Abrus precatorius. Accordingly the interior
of the forests is ver}' easy of access. A grassy covering to the ground is quite
exceptional, and then consists of the so-called teak-grass, a species of Pollinia.
Ferns are scanty on the ground, and only those species are present that withstand
great drought. Numerous herbaceous plants spring from the soil, but without
covering it. Bryophyta are very scarce and confined to moist sandstone rocks
(Hypnum, Fissidens, Marchantia). Epiphytes are not numerous, and occur only
on the tops of the trees.
The 'lower mixed forest' averages 70 to 80 feet in height, sometimes attaining
100 feet; it is richer in lianes and also in shrubs, and therefore denser than the
' upper mixed forest.' Kurz mentions about fifty species of trees as the leading
constituents of this forest, and about as many more as rather of local occurrence.
We find among the former the most diverse families represented : — Sterculiaceae,
Malvaceae, Bombaceae, Dilleniaceae, Sapindaceae (Schleichera), Anacardiaceae
(Odina, Mangifera, Spondias), Combretaceae (various species of Terminalia, Ano-
geissus), Lythraceae (various species of Lagerstroemia), Samydaceae (Homalium),
Diospyraceae, Bignoniaceae (Spathodea, Heterophragma, Stereospermum, Calo-
santhes), Euphorbiaceae (Antidesma, Emblica^, Mimosaceae (Albizzia), Rubiaceae
(various species of Nauclea, Gardenia, Randia), Artocarpaceae (various species of
Ficus), Myrtaceae (Barringtonia, Careya), Loganiaceae (Strychnos Nux-vomica).
Among the shrubs are in particular Thespesia Lampas (Malvaceae), Grewia
hirsuta (Tiliaceae>, Premna, Clerodendron (Verbenaceae), Ceratogynum, Phyllan-
thus, Baliospermum (Euphorbiaceae), Desmodium, Flemmingia (Papilionaceae), two
species of Calamus.
The lianes are extremely diversified. Kurz specially mentions more than fifty
species, among them numerous Leguminosae (Butea, Spatholobus, Entada, Caes-
alpinia of various species, Acacia, Dalbergia, Phaseolus, Pueraria, Mucuna, Dolichos,
Mezoneurum, Abrus precatorius), Menispermaceae (Stephania), Rhanmaceae (Zizi-
phus, Gouania, Colubrina), Celastraceae (Celastrus 1 , Sapindaceae (Stephania),
Vitaceae (Vitis, many species), Rubiaceae (Paederia), Euphorbiaceae (Rottlera,
Bridelia), Verbenaceae (Symphorema, Congea), Combretaceae (Combretum of various
species, Calycopteris), Cucurbitaceae (Zehneria, Luffa), Convolvulaceae (Argyreia
of various species, Ipomoea), and others ; of Monocotyledones, Smilax and Scin-
dapsus ; also Gnetum scandens (Fig. 147) and Lygodium.
51 HIMPER J^ 2i
