354 ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. I
Among the herbs, which never cover the ground, the Scitamineae are prominent.
Besides, there are numbers of grasses, Araceae, Compositae, Malvaceae, and
so forth.
The trees bear as epiphytes, mosses (Neckera, Metirium), various common
orchids, ferns and asclepiads, besides remarkably numerous and diversified
parasitic Loranthaceae.
The savannah-forest in Pegu appears under various forms, which Kurz describes
as ' eng-forest,' or ' laterite-forest,' 'low forest' and 'savannah-forest.' 'Eng 1 is
the native name for Dipterocarpus tuberculatus, which is characteristic of the first
form of forest.
' Eng-forest " occurs chiefly on laterite, but also, although in a less developed
form, on various diluvial soils. The height of the leaf-canopy on pure laterite soil
is about 30 to 40 feet, on more clayey or loamy soil about 70 to 80 feet. Most
of the trunks have fissured thick scaly bark and remarkably thick knotty and
crooked stems. Dipterocarpus tuberculatus predominates on purely laterite soils ;
on other kinds of soil it is scanty, or absent. More than forty other species of
trees besides are usually abundant. There are Dipterocarpaceae (Shorea, Pent-
acme), Meliaceae (Walsura), Dilleniaceae (Dillenia), Celastraceae (Lophopetalum),
Rhamnaceae (Zizyphus), Anacardiaceae (Buchanania, Melanorrhoea), Styracaceae
(Symplocos), Diospyraceae (Diospyros), Myrsinaceae (Myrsine), Euphorbiaceae
(Phyllanthus, Aporosa), Papilionaceae (Dalbergia, Xylia), Rubiaceae (Wendlandia,
Nauclea, Randia, Gardenia), Combretaceae (Terminalia), Myrtaceae (Careya,
Eugenia), Lythraceae (Lagerstroemia), Loganiaceae (Strychnos Nux-vomica), and
many others intermingled in the greatest confusion. Growing between the trees
there are bamboos (B. Tulda and B. stricta), an acaulous palm (Phoenix acaulis),
low very sparse shrubs, among which the author, strangely enough, also includes
large herbaceous plants, even annuals, and a few lianes that scarcely climb. The
grass on the ground is usually very richly developed (Andropogoneae, Paniceae,
Cyperaceae), and is intermingled with numerous small herbaceous plants (Malva-
ceae, Acanthaceae, Rubiaceae, Campanulaceae, Gentianaceae, Scrophulariaceae,
Labiatae, Papilionaceae, Compositae, Scitamineae, Amaryllidaceae, Orchidaceae,
Commelinaceae, Eriocaulaceae, and so forth.
A crowd of epiphytic orchids, species of Hoya, ferns (Platycerium for instance),
grow in great numbers on the branches of the trees.
The ' low forest " resembles the eng-forest in its growth, and is to be considered
as systematically intermediate between the eng-forest and the ' lower mixed forest.'
Its soil is richly overgrown with Andropogoneae or with Imperata cylindrica.
Kurz's ' savannah-forest ' has the same height as the eng-forest. It grows on
deep alluvial soil, especially near rivers. The trunks of the trees are very short,
often hardly taller than the so-called elephant-grass (species of Andropogon, Coix,
Saccharum, Phragmites) that covers the ground ; the crowns are very strongly
developed and often flattened above. The species of trees are partly identical with
those in the ' lower mixed forest.' It is a typical savannah-forest.
The greatest part of the forest in East Java may be described as
a transition form between rain-forest and monsoon-forest, but edaphic
influences there, as generally in climatic transitional districts, are very
