Chap. V] TROPICAL DISTRICTS WITH DRY SEASONS 355
effective, and occasion a richer differentiation in the kind of vegetation
covering the soil than in West Java, where the vegetation appears to be
practically dependent on climate only. Particularly in East Java there
occurs on soil that easily dries up or that is comparatively impervious,
the djati-forest formation, a typical tropophilous deciduous forest.
The djati-forest owes its name to the economically valuable djati-tree,
Tcctona grandis — the teak-tree (Fig. 190), which has a wide distribution over
continental India, yet only in Java forms pure forests in which other trees
occur merely as subsidiary species. The teak-tree is by no means a giant,
either in height or in thickness of stem. It is at most 25 meters high.
Its cordate leaves, reminding one of those of Catalpa, are very large, and
the violet flowers, that open in the middle of the rainy season, are arranged
in pyramidal panicles. The trunk possesses a light coloured bark and is
devoid of epiphytes ; on the other hand, figs (species of Urostigma)
frequently colonize the branches. During the dry season (June until
October) the teak is quite leafless and displays its new leaves in November
with the advent of the west monsoon.
Cordes has given a detailed description of the oecology and the flora of
the natural djati-forest of East Java — artificial teak-forest occurs in West
Java, as well as in British India.
In contrast with the rain-forest of West Java the appearance of the djati-
forest is very different at different seasons of the year. In August and
September, at the height of the dry season, the picture the forest presents
is almost wintry. The vast majority of the trees, among them especially
the teak-tree, are quite leafless, and the ground is covered by a rustling
layer of their dry leaves, which do not decay until the rainy season. The
trees accompanying the teak are more recognizable in the dry season than
during the rains. Acacia leucophloea is known by its umbrella-shaped
crown ; Albizzia procera by its bark resembling that of birch. Some
trees remain green, among them the commonest companion of the teak,
Butea frondosa, which in contrast with the teak adorns itself at the height
of the dry season with its large fiery papilionaceous flowers. Evergreen
also are the sapindaceous Schleichera trijuga, the mimosaceous Albizzia
stipulata, with a regular umbrella-shaped crown, and the fig-trees perched
on the branches of other trees.
Between the tall trees numerous smaller ones grow, especially Emblica
officinalis, Gaertn., a euphorbiad, also Dillenia aurea, and other plants.
Palms are very rare, bamboos occur here and there. Shrubby vegetation
is richly developed and varied. The Leguminosae are specially numerous,
for instance Acacia tomentosa, Willd., species of Cassia, Papilionaceae ; but
Hibiscus Lampas also frequently shows its large yellow flowers. The
lianes are all thin-stemmed and chiefly Papilionaceae, such as Abrus pre-
catorius, species of Mucuna, and the like. The herbs vary greatly according
A a 2
