y 3 6 ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. I
to the nature of the soil. If it be moist and rich in humus, thickets of tall
Zingiberaceae appear (species of Curcuma, Kaempferia, Elettaria), which
open their beautiful flowers in the second half of the dry season (Sep-
tember — October). Specially dry soils are chiefly overgrown by tall
grasses, such as the alang-alang (Imperata arundinacea) and glagah (Sac-
charum spontaneum, Linn.). Among the numerous, mostly inconspicuous,
herbaceous perennials should be mentioned — Malvaceae (Urena, Sida),
Compositae (Conyza lacera, Burm., Wollastonia, Adenostemma viscosum),
some Araceae, very small Acanthaceae, Commelinaceae ; finally, various
Amaryllidaceae that flower in the dry season (Eurycles amboinensis,
Pancratium zeylanicum, Crinum asiaticum).
Except the figs already referred to, epiphytes are very scanty in the
djati-forest and are limited to a few small orchids, Asclepiadaceae and
Aeschynanthus. The presence of epiphytic ferns is a sign that there are
hollows in the branches ; and mosses occur only exceptionally on sound
trees. On the other hand parasitic Loranthaceae are very common.
Most of the herbs mentioned are greatly reduced in size during the dry
season, or, if annuals, are entirely absent. In July and August the Ama-
ryllidaceae flower, with the Butea ; later on, in September and October,
many other plants join in, such as the already mentioned Zingiberaceae,
but in particular most of the trees except the teak. Still greater is the
show of blossom at the very commencement of the monsoon-rain, in
November ; then it is that most of the shrubs blossom, whereas the herbs
the development of whose flowers is closely dependent on metabolic activity
usually blossom in the rainy season. On the whole, the show of blossom
in the djati-forest, in accordance with the greater dryness and stronger
light, is far greater than in the rain-forest.
November is the time when the leaf-canopy is renewed. The teak
clothes itself with leaves, at first red, that soon form dense masses of
foliage. April, May, and June are the months that are poorest in
flower.
iii. WOODLAND IN TROPICAL EAST AFRICA.
It is not yet possible to give a satisfactory account of the condition of
the vegetation in tropical East Africa south of the equator. There are
very few meteorological data, which moreover embrace a short period only,
and few botanists have yet travelled through the region. From the
accounts given by collectors, and by other travellers devoid of scientific
training, the coast country up to the Zambesi river presents the appear-
ance of a richly differentiated vegetation with various formations of wood-
land, grassland, and desert. What share in this differentiation is due to
climate and what to edaphic influences, how far its character is original
and how far modified by man, cannot be decided at present.
