Chap. V] TROPICAL DISTRICTS WITH DRY SEASONS 369
(Tricholaena, Setaria, Pennisetum), Agrostideae (Sporobolus, Aristida gracillima),
Chlorideae (Enteropogon, Chloris, Leptochloa, Lepidopironia), Aveneae (Tristachya,
Trichopteryx), Festuceae (Eragrostis). The subordinate herbs growing among the
grasses are ' partly bulbous or rhizomatous plants with solitary flowering shoots,
partly herbaceous perennials that form a short low stock and send up a tuft of
flowering shoots.' Herbaceous Monocotyledones are not numerous. Engler
specially mentions Aneilema Johnstonii, Commelina bracteosa, Chlorophytum
macrophyllum and C. tuberosum, Gloriosa virescens, also some species of Scilla,
Asparagus, some Amaryllidaceae (Haemanthus, Hypoxis), Iridaceae (Acidanthera),
Orchidaceae (Lissochilus, Habenaria). Among Dicotyledones, greyish-green
Amaranthaceae, not unfrequently 1-2 meters high, take a prominent place ; they
belong chiefly to Celosia, Digera, Sericocomopsis, Pupalia, Aerva, Achyranthes,
Nothosaerva. The Nyctaginaceae are represented by the common weed Boer-
haavia diffusa, the Aizoaceae rather weakly by Trianthema pentandrum and Glinus
lotoides, the Phytolaccaceae by two annual succulent herbs, Limeum viscosum and
Giesekia pharnaceoides. Talinum patens, a succulent weed belonging to the Portu-
lacaceae, is common. The Cruciferae are very scanty (two species of Farsetia).
A strong contingent comes from the Papilionaceae, especially species of Indigofera and
Tephrosia, besides several Hedysareae (Zornia, Stylosanthes, Desmodium, Pseudar-
thria), Phaseoleae (Rhynchosia, Eriosema), and many others. The Caesalpiniaceae are
poorly represented by a few Cassieae. Species of Polygala, Malvaceae, and Sterculia-
ceae are fairly numerous. The Euphorbiaceae are few, and there are no Umbelliferae.
Among the Gamopetalae, Asclepiadaceae (Gomphocarpus, Stathmostelma, Schizo-
glossum) and Convolvulaceae (Convolvulus, Ipomoea, especially Astrochlaena) play
a prominent part by their abundance and by their large flowers. Labiatae are also
numerous (especially species of Leucas), but the most numerous of all Dicotyledones
are Acanthaceae (especially species of Justicia, Barleria, Blepharis capensis, Neur-
acanthus scaber). The family of Compositae, which is so richly developed in the
South American prairie, is poor in forms in the South African, and is limited to
species belonging to Vernonieae and Inuleae. The following families also
supply representatives of subordinate import : Gentianaceae (Enicostemma verti-
cillatum), Boraginaceae (species of Heliotropium), Verbenaceae (Leptostachys),
Scrophulariaceae (Striga, Scoparia), Solanaceae (Solanum), Cucurbitaceae
(Corallocarpus, Cucumis), Passifloraceae (Tryphostemma, Adenia), and Rubiaceae
(Oldenlandia).
Engler's bush-grass-steppe, a shrub-savannah according to our terminology,
contains singly, or in small groups, various kinds of shrubs. The following are
represented : Anonaceae (Anona senegalensis), Capparidaceae (Capparis, Courbonia,
Cadaba, Maerua, Thylachium), Leguminosae (Acacia, Diphaca), Malpighiaceae (Di-
aspis albida, Triaspis auriculata), Euphorbiaceae (species of Phyllanthus, Bridelia,
Acalypha, Flueggea), Anacardiaceae (Rhus villosa, R. glaucescens), Celastraceae
(Gymnosporia senegalensis), Sapindaceae (Deinbollia borbonica), Rhamnaceae
(Zizyphus Jujuba), Thymelaeaceae (Gnidia), Verbenaceae (Bouchea pterygocarpa),
Acanthaceae (Blechum hamatum, Hygrophila Volkensii), Rubiaceae (Crossopteryx
africana, Gardenia Thunbergiij.
The trees in Engler's tree-grass-steppe, a real savannah according to our
terminology, are chiefly species of Acacia (A. subulata, A. Seyal, A. spirocarpa,
SCHIMPER ]J t)
