Chap. V] TROPICAL DISTRICTS WITH DRY SEASONS 373
Rhopala, that stand isolated here and there, and especially occur on eminences ;
these trees are never found in forests. The swampy depressions of the savannah
are for the most part occupied by Mauritia flexuosa, sometimes isolated, sometimes
forming actual forests.'
The campos of Brazil, like the llanos and the savannahs of Guiana,
do not consist of a uniform formation spread over a wide area, but of
a richly differentiated, undulating park-like country, in which different
forms of woodland and grassland
partake, although the latter prepon-
derates.
Saint-Hilaire also describes the
campos of Minas Geraes as a hilly
tract, the depressions in which form
true savannah with stuntedtrees, whilst
the heights are covered with pure
steppe. Yet the campo-district is by
no means without forest. ' Wherever
a damp and deep valley appears in
the midst of the free and merely un-
dulating surface of this immense dis-
trict, wherever a depression occurs
on the slope of a hill, one may be
certain of finding a group of trees ' '.
The licrbaccous vegetation of the
savannah has most probably every-
where a xerophilous structure ; but
only a few observations of the vegeta-
tion of the campos, those of Warming,
are available. According to him,
many herbs, both Dicotyledones and
Monocotyledones, have tubers, which
function either primarily or secon-
darily as water-reservoirs (Figs. 203
and 204). The leaves of the grasses
are narrow and stiff, the leaves of
Dicotyledones are usually small and
hard, and frequently the plants are reduced to a completely aphyllous
condition.
Warming has thoroughly studied the systematic composition of the campo of
Lagoa Santa in Minas Geraes (Figs. 201-205). He found 554 herbaceous species.
The majority of individual plants are grasses, of which about 60 species in particular
1 Saint-Hilaire, op. cit., p. 9.
Fig. 203. Vernonia desertorum. From the
Brazilian campos of Minas Geraes. Natural
size. After 'Warminq;.
