CHAPTER VI
EDAPHIC INFLUENCES IN THE TROPICS
i. Edaphic Influences in Tropical Inland Country, i. Laterite. Physical and
chemical properties. Effects on vegetation. Eng-forest in Burma, ii. Lime. Unfavour-
able influence on vegetation in the tropics. Occurrence of thorn-forest on calcareous
soil. iii. Humus. Its relatively slight development in the tropics. Regur in South
India. Absence of peat-formation, iv. Siliceous Soil. Sal-forest of India. Bamboo-
forest, v. Swampy Ground. Palm-woods. Swamp-forest in Burma. Swamps with-
out forest, vi. Fumaroles in Java. Xerophilous vegetation. 2. Formations of the
Tropical Sea-shore. i. Classification of Tropical Littoral Formations. ii. Open
Formations of the Sandy Shore. Pes-caprae formation. Littoral shrubs. Pandanus.
iii. Littoral Woodland above High-tide Mark. Its occurrence in the Malay Archipelago,
in Pegu, in East Africa. Oecological characters. Casuarina-forest. iv. Woodland Forma-
tions below High-tide Mark. Mangrove or tidal woodland. The Eastern mangrove.
Characteristic plants. Oecological characters. Rhizophora mucronata. Vivipary and
germination in Rhizophoraceae, Aegiceras, and Avicennia. Habit of mangrove-plants.
Stilt-roots. Pneumatophores. Physiognomy of the mangrove-forest in South Java.
Nipa-formation. Transition to the inland formations. The Western mangrove, v. Dis-
tribution of Littoral Formations in the Tropics.
i. EDAPHIC INFLUENCES IN TROPICAL
INLAND COUNTRY.
The differentiation in the flora and in the oecological features of the
vegetation, arising from differences in the constitution of the soil, is much
more pronounced in the periodically dry districts than in the constantly
humid ones, where the rain-forest, without apparently exhibiting any
essential difference, extends over the most varied kinds of soil and shows
a different physiognomy only in those stations that are swampy or very
rich in salts.
Owing to the lack of proper observations, it is not at present possible to
distinguish between the physical and chemical influences of the soil in the
tropics, and the whole subject of edaphic influence is still very little studied,
except in regard to littoral formations, so that we must be satisfied by
considering individual kinds of soil and the vegetation peculiar to each,
without inquiring closely into causes.
