EDAPHIC INFLUENCES IN THE TROPICS 379
i. LATER 'JTE\
Tropical zones possess a widespread and characteristic kind of soil,
termed latcrite, a red or dark yellow loam impregnated with ferric oxide
or ferric hydrate, and resulting from the weathering of all rocks that
contain alumina and iron. Laterite exhibits, in consequence of its varied
origin, much variety both in its chemical and physical properties. From
true laterite, which contains hard, vitreous or cellular concretions composed
of ferric oxide or hydrate, and is limited to the tropics, Wohltmann
separates red-earth, which is devoid of such concretions, and plays an
important part, in particular in extra-tropical South America and even in
Mediterranean countries.
With all their chemical differences the laterites possess certain negative
characters in common that are important in relation to vegetation, namely
great poverty in alkalis and lime or their complete absence, and poverty in
phosphorus, magnesia, and sulphur. The chief constituents are silica,
alumina, and ferric oxide, in very variable proportions.
The following table gives an idea of the great variability in the chemical com-
position of laterite: —
COMPOSITION OF LATERITE (after Wohltmann).
Malanzhe (Central Africa). Table Mountain. Gabun. Rangoon (about).
SiO.,
So-5%
53-5%
104%
37-o%
al6 3
u-i%
26-8%
17-8%
6-o.%
Fe a O a
4-o%
9-8%
58-o%
47-°%
Physically, laterite is characterized by very low capacity for retaining
water ; in particular, old washed-out laterite, rich in coarse fragments, is
very permeable. Being a soil poor in nutriment and drying rapidly,
especially after its finely grained constituents have been washed out,
laterite affords a very unfavourable substratum for the existence of plants.
It is not yet known how far the large proportion of iron also affects the
characteristic peculiarities of the vegetation.
Laterite, especially in its stony porous forms, induces in the forest
a physiognomy which is characteristic both as regards its oecological
features and its systematic composition, and which has been described by
Brandis and Kurz in respect to Burma.
A tree characteristic of the laterite localities in that country is the eng,
Dipterocarpus tuberculatus, which dominates the forest through its social
habit, and distinguishes itself essentially from the other accompanying trees
by the fact that it exhibits a normal growth in height, whereas the other
trees are reduced to gnarled, more or less dwarfed, forms. Such forests are
termed ' eng-forest' by Brandis and Kurz -.
1 Wohltmann, op. cit., p. 143. 2 See p. 354.
