380 ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. I
ii. LIME.
In warm climates, lime appears to exercise an action on plant-life quite
different from that which it has in temperate and cold climates. Weathered
soil of pure limestone affords less favourable conditions for the growth of
plants, and the number of plants whose development is favoured by liming
the soil is smaller in low than in high latitudes 1 .
Nothing quite certain is known regarding the influence of the chemical
properties of lime on the constitution of the vegetation in the tropics,
although several species appear to be limited to a calcareous soil. The
effects of a calcareous soil that have hitherto been demonstrated refer
solely to stony situations, poor in humus, in periodically dry regions, and
possibly may be traced back to the low water-absorbing power of lime,
therefore to a purely physical property.
In the climate of the monsoon-forest, calcareous soil having the low
water-absorbing power just mentioned causes the appearance of the most
xerophilous of tropical forest-types, namely the thorn- forest, or it may be
of thorn-bush and thorn-scrub, which denote a still greater dryness. The
occurrence of thorn-forest on calcareous soil in Central Brazil has been
already mentioned 2 . In the periodically dry districts in Pegu, Kurz's
'dry forest,' a type corresponding exactly to our thorn-forest, is characteristic
of dry, stony, calcareous soil. It is a bush-like forest, green in the rainy
season, 'not very inviting on account of the prevalence of thorny trees and
shrubs.' The trees are there of moderate height (50-70 feet, exceptionally
up to 1 00 feet) ; Acacia Catechu (sha) is in such forests frequently the
predominant species of tree, hence the name sha-forest. Finally, forests
and bush of similar oecological character have been described by Warburg
on calcareous soil at Ceram-Laut.
Warburg observed a diversified primary forest vegetation, where there was
almost no humus, on calcareous rocks, if the latter were sufficiently fissured ; this
vegetation consisted chiefly of bushes, some of which were armed with thorns.
One or two endemic species were found there alone. The following species pre-
dominated: Trema virgata, Bl., Dalbergia densa, Benth., Eugenia Reinwardtiana, DC,
Zanthoxylum diversifolium, Warb., Atalantia paniculata, Warb., Breynia cernua,
Mull.-Arg., Acalypha grandis, Benth., Flagellaria indica, Linn., Citrus Hystrix, DC.
In places, collections of a small bamboo, Schizostachyum Zollingeri, occurred.
iii. HUMUS*.
Soils rich in humus cover smaller areas in the tropics than in temperate
zones, and pure deep humus-soils are very rare. The poverty in humus is
a consequence of the acceleration in the development of micro-organisms
occasioned by the tropical heat, which is at least for a part of the year
1 Wohltmann, op. cit., pp. 134-5. °- See p. 360. 3 Wohltmann, op.cit., p. 173.
