Chap. VI] EDAPHIC INFLUENCES IN THE TROPICS 391
dark-green succulent leaves are pendulous, and like brambles and other simple
scramblers form tangled thickets, unless they find a support ; also the tropical
cosmopolitan Scaevola Koenigii (Fig. 210), belonging to the Goodeniaceae, a family
otherwise almost confined to Australia, is one of the most remarkable plants of
littoral vegetation, thanks to its long and frequently bent shoots which interlace
to form a tangled mass, to its large succulent leaves, and to its large panicles of
wonderfully white flowers from which white-ribbed stone fruits develop.
In such stations in the Malay Archipelago, and probably elsewhere in Eastern
x\sia, shrubs and herbs are frequently bound together, and overgrown by a dense
tangle of the green and red thread-like stems of Cassytha filiformis.
The shrubs and small trees which, on the side towards the sea, stand
apart, become more closely set as their distance above high-tide mark
increases — immediately above the latter, indeed, in quiet creeks — so as
to form closed woodland that assumes the character of forest, bush, or
scrub.
iii. LITTORAL WOODLAND ABOVE HIGH-TIDE MARK.
Woodland formations on the sandy and gravelly shore were first
described by Junghuhn in connexion with Java, and by Kurz in connexion
with Pegu. From the occurrence of many of their characteristic species
over a great portion of the Old World the wide distribution of such forma-
tions may be surmised ; but little is known regarding this. Engler
mentions littoral woodland in East Africa, where however it does not
appear to cover extensive areas. Nothing is known about its possible
occurrence in West Africa, and I cannot remember having seen anything
like it in tropical America, although trees like Coccoloba uvifera are
not lacking on the shore outside the mangrove. The bush on sandy
coasts in Brazil termed ' restinga ' appears to be devoid of the halophytic
character.
I have met with littoral woodland, in particular on the north coast of
Java (Fig. 213), on the small coral islands in the Java Sea and on the
island of Singapore, as low or moderately high forest, occasionally inter-
rupted by scrub or by scantily clad stretches of sand. The following
description I wrote on the spot, in a forest not far from Priok in Java ;
but it applies equally well to the other littoral forests that I know: —
' When once we have broken through the dense tangle of branches, that
are as it were tied together by the red and green threads of Cassytha,
and have entered the interior of the forest (Fig. 214). we meet with a scene
radically unlike that of most tropical forests, at least those of humid
districts. From the sandy or stony soil, which is bare or covered by only
a few scattered dead leaves, there rise up tree-trunks which are either
naked, or decked with some few thick-leaved epiphytes, species of Hoya and
Dischidia for example, and small crustaceous lichens, and these are often
