Chap. VI] EDAPHIC INFLUENCES IN THE TROPICS 395
almond-like fruit of Terminalia Catappa, under the thick juicy mesocarp of
Scaevola Koenigii, in the testa of Cycas circinalis and of Calophyllum
Inophyllum. Heritiera littoralis possesses boat-shaped, carinate, hard-
shelled nuts, which, thanks to a large internal cavity, are among the best
floaters ; and the individual fruits of the huge infructescence of Pandanus,
in spite of their beautiful red colour, apparently acquired to attract animals,
are hard and almost free from sap, and are chiefly disseminated by marine
currents, as is shown by their frequency in drift cast on the shore.
The capacity for floating possessed by the seeds of most plants of
littoral woodland, and shared by the partly identical species of the open
formations, has occasioned the extremely wide distribution of the plants
of these groups of formations. Species from the mangroves, which will be
described hereafter, are also provided with floating fruits or floating seeds.
But such floating fruits and seeds appear in no formation in such perfection
and variety as in littoral woodland above high-tide level.
iv. WOODLAND FORMATIONS BELOW HIGH-TIDE MARK.
Within the tropics, as in higher latitudes, the belt of shore within reach
of the tide — ' the beach ' — is quite devoid of vegetation on sandy or clayey
coasts exposed to the wind and breakers, and bears only Algae on rocky
coasts ; on the other hand, in creeks and lagoons, where the movements of
the sea and air are weaker, it is covered by woodland that is sometimes
more shrub-like or bush-like, sometimes forest-like, and is termed mangrove
or tidal woodland. It differs from all inland-formations as regards both
its flora and its oecology.
Like the littoral woodland above high tide, mangrove consists mainly of
species that are very widely distributed. Nevertheless, two extensive areas
may be sharply distinguished from one another — an eastern, which extends
from East Africa over Asia into Australia and Polynesia, and a western,
which embraces the West African and American coasts.
The Eastern Mangrove.
The eastern mangrove, which shows its greatest wealth of forms in
Further India and in the Malay Archipelago and may have originated
there, consists, with the exception of a few rare species that doubtfully
belong to mangrove, of the following forms : —
RJiizoplioraceae: Rhizophora mucronata, Lamk., R. conjugata, Linn.,
Ceriops Candolleana, Arn., C. Roxburghiana, Arn., Kandelia Rheedii, W\
et A., Bruguiera gymnorrhiza, Lamk., B. eriopetala, W. et A., B. caryo-
phvlloides, Bl., B. parviflora, W. et A. Combretaceac: Lumnitzera
racemosa, Willd., L. coccinea, W. et A. LytJiraceae : Sonneratia apetala,
