Chap. I] WATER 3
necessary to place in a third category all plants whose conditions of life are,
according to the season of the year, alternately those of hygrophytes or of
xerophytes. All such plants, including, for instance, the great majority
of the plants composing the Central European flora, should be termed
tropophytes. The structure of their perennial parts is xcrophilons, and that
of their parts that are present only in the wet season is hygrophilons.
The classification of plants as hygrophytes, tropophytes, and xerophytes
is the first step towards the physiological comprehension of the earth's
vegetation and its components, the formations. Extensive districts, for
instance a large portion of the tropical coasts and mountain ranges, are
marked by the prevalence of hygrophytes ; others, such as steppes, deserts,
and polar zones, of xerophytes ; and others, again, for instance the greater
part of the north temperate zone, of tropophytes. There are hygrophytic,
xerophytic, and tropophytic climates. Every climatic district exhibits, besides
the corresponding oecological type of vegetation, one of the two other
types in certain localities, because the properties of certain kinds of soil
weaken, or strengthen, the influence of the climate. The influence of the
soil may be termed edapJiic l . There are climatic and edaphic hygrophytes,
xerophytes, and tropophytes.
Characteristics occasioned by physiological humidity or drought deter-
mine the physiognomic, or rather, oecological aspect of the vegetation of
the districts 2 and of the separate stations within them. Systematic phyto-
geography must therefore reckon these differences amongst the most
important, for there are also hygrophilous, tropophilous, and xerophilous
species. There are, further, some species — and this fact is as important
to the systematist as to the physiologist — which adapt themselves to the
varying conditions of humidity so completely that their extreme forms
appear to belong to different species, but these by a change in the supply
of moisture may pass over into one another.
ii. XEROPHYTES.
Physiological drought is caused by external factors which either reduce
absorption or which favour transpiration, or, and this the most frequently,
there is a combination of these influences 3 .
Factors reducing Absorption.
1. Scarcity of free water in the soil, that is to say, of water that is less
attracted by the particles of soil than it is by roots. According to their
physical nature different soils exhibit very unequal degrees of physiological
dryness i .
1 to e'8a<f)os, ' the soil.'
" The Zones depending on heat are subdivided into Districts depending on the quantity
of atmospheric precipitation. See Part III, Introduction.
3 Schimper, I. 4 See Part I, Chap. V, The Soil.
B 1
