Chap. I] CHARACTERS OF THE TEMPERATE CLIMATE 425
Dicotyledones.
The group of Dicotyledones includes a much smaller number of tree-
species in the temperate zones than it does in the tropics, and the forests
composed of Dicotyledones are much less mixed. This is especially the
case in the cold temperate belts, where broad-leaved forests usually
present almost pure woods of certain Amentaceae, whilst in approaching
the tropics the number of tree-species becomes greater and their ad-
mixture more uniform. Dicotyledonous shrubs are very rich in forms
in the warm temperate belts ; on the contrary, woody lianes are very
feebly represented. The distribution of herbaceous Dicotyledones on
grassland and in the shade-flora of woodland is about the same as in
the tropics.
Next to the Coniferae, Amentaceae, in particular species of Fagus and
Ouercus, in the southern zone species of Nothofagus, to a less extent
a few other species (Castanea, Carpinus, Betula, Juglans), are the most
important constituents of the forests in temperate zones. In stations
where edaphic conditions arc the controlling factors, woods of other
Amentaceae appear, especially species of Salix and Alnus on wet soil,
species of Betula on sandy soil and on sphagnum-moor.
In the temperate zones as compared with the tropics, the Urticineae
are of subordinate importance as trees (Ulmus, Celtis, Morus) ; herbaceous
forms are commoner (Urtica, Parietaria, Humulus).
Of the two families of the Polygoninae, the Piperaceae are almost
completely absent, whilst the Polygonaceae are much more numerous than
in the tropics, and appear particularly in grassland and open situations.
Centrospermae : the Chenopodiaceae, as inconspicuous shrubs and herbs,
rarely as small trees, are very common and rich in forms on saline
soil, particularly on steppe and desert, but also on manured land. The
Caryophyllaceae occur in both zones, in the southern only as Alsinoideae;
they form important constituents of grassy tracts and of the herbaceous
ground-flora of woodland. The Nyctaginaceae occur in the warm temperate
belts of America, and the Aizoaceae are in particular important con-
stituents of the South African flora.
Among the Polycarpicae, the purely mesothermic Ranunculaceae take
the foremost place in temperate zones, chiefly in the northern zone. The
Magnoliaceae are represented by a few forest trees in Japan, Himalaya>
and North America ; only the widely distributed Drimys Winteri reaches
South America. The Lauraceae overstep both the tropical limits and
form important constituents of warm temperate woodland, but in the
cold temperate zones they are represented by only a few species (Laurus
Sassafras in North America).
The Rhoeadinae, with the exception of the Capparidaceae, are mostly
