426 ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. II
mesothermic, and are in particular richly represented by Cruciferae in
both temperate zones. The Papaveraceae and Fumariaceae are almost
exclusively north temperate ; the Capparidaceae are confined to the dry
districts of the warm belts ; and the few Resedaceae are mainly
Mediterranean.
Of the family Cistiflorae, the Cistaceae are mesothermic and chiefly
inhabit Mediterranean countries, the Violaceae occur in both temperate
zones, the mainly tropical Ternstroemiaceae reach their northern limit
in China and Japan (Camellia), the Tamaricaceae chiefly inhabit Medi-
terranean countries and Central Asiatic deserts.
The almost wholly American Cactaceae, which alone compose the
Opuntinac, are abundantly represented not only within the tropics, but
also in the warm temperate belts, and are of extreme physiognomic
importance in the desert flora, particularly of North America.
The temperate Cohimnifcrae belong chiefly to the Malvaceae, which
occur in the form of shrubs and herbs both in the north and in the south.
The chief large extra-tropical genus of Tiliaceae is Tilia ; its species are
forest trees of the north temperate zone. The pre-eminently tropical
Sterculiaceae are represented in temperate Australia by the Lasiopetaleae.
The GruinaleS) although the majority of them are mesothermic, are
only of subordinate importance in the composition of the vegetation of
the globe, if we except the Geraniaceae, which possess numerous species
in both hemispheres, but especially in South Africa (Pelargonium). The
other temperate Gruinales belong to Linaceae, Oxalidaceae, Balsaminaceae,
and Tremandraceae, which last are confined to Australia.
The Terebintkinae, with few exceptions, require heat, and in their
mesothermic forms therefore are confined to the belts with mild winters,
where most of them in large numbers inhabit dry districts. The Zygo-
phyllaceae are mainly halophytes of desert districts in both hemispheres ;
the Rutaceae, particularly as shrubs, form the principal constituents of
xerophilous woodlands, specially in South Africa and Australia. The
mainly tropical Anacardiaceae play a part similar to that of the Rutaceae,
but they are specially important in the Mediterranean flora (Pistacia,
Rhus — the latter genus is also North American and East Asiatic).
The Aesculinae are represented by tree-species of Acer in the north
temperate forests, specially those of North America, China, and Japan.
The Hippocastanaceae are likewise mainly North American; Aesculus
Hippocastanum is, however, distributed from Greece to North India. Only
a few Sapindaceae occur.
The Fraugulinae contribute numerous species, particularly to the shrubby
vegetation of both temperate zones, for instance chiefly in America
species of Ilex (Aquifoliaceae), also several Celastraceae such as species
of Euonymus in the northern zone, species of Gymnosporia in South
