Chap. I] CHARACTERS OF THE TEMPERATE CLIMATE 427
Africa ; finally, numerous Rhamnaceae, particularly belonging to the genera
Rhamnus (Europe, North Asia, North America), Phylica (South Africa),
Ceanothus (California). The mainly tropical Vitaceae are mostly repre-
sented as lianes, but also by aberrant forms in the warm temperate belts.
Vitis vinifera is indigenous in Mediterranean countries, most other species
of Vitis in North America.
Tricoccac: the Euphorbiaceae are not so important in temperate as in
tropical floras ; yet some of their species, specially those of the genus
Euphorbia, are very widespread in the most diverse formations. Buxus
sempervirens (Mediterranean countries, Atlantic Europe, temperate Asia)
and Empetrum nigrum (north temperate and polar zones) are the commonest
representatives of the Buxaceae and Empetraceae.
The Thymclacinac (Thymelaeaceae, Penaeaceae, Proteaceae) are by a vast
majority mesothermic, but the most of them are confined to the warmer
belts. Their chief centre is in the dry districts of South Africa and
Australia.
Umbelliflorae : the Umbelliferae are almost exclusively mesothermic and
form a chief constituent of the flora of the north and south temperate
zones, specially in grassland formations (Fig. 237). Drude shows that of
the three sub-families into which he has divided the Umbelliferae, the
Hydrocotyloideae are austral, the Saniculoideae both austral and boreal,
the Apioideae boreal as regards most genera. The Araliaceae are for the
most part megathermic, but yet are richly represented in the warmer
districts outside the tropics. Europe possesses only one species, Hedera
Helix. The small family Cornaceae is almost exclusively north temperate.
Of the Saxifraginae the Crassulaceae are chiefly inhabitants of dry hot
districts and are strongly developed in South Africa. The but slightly
homogeneous Saxifragaceae are represented in both temperate zones by
dissimilar groups of forms, as are also the Hamamelidaceae. A few allied
families (Cunoniaceae, Bruniaceae, Pittosporaceae) are indigenous chiefly in
the southern zone.
Rosiflorae : the Rosaceae are almost exclusively mesothermic and form
an important component of the north temperate flora ; the south
temperate zone possesses only a few genera, which are however in some
instances rich in species (Acaena in South America, Cliffdrtia in South
Africa). Roseae, Prunoideae, and Pomoideae are boreal.
Of the three families of Legumiuosae, the Papilionaceae are by far the
most important in the temperate zones ; within which they are richly
represented in the most widely different formations. The Mimosaceae
are limited to the warm temperate belts and are extremely important in
xerophilous woodland, specially in South Africa, Australia (Acacia), and
Argentina (Mimosa). Only a few Caesalpiniaceae overstep the tropics
(Cercis, Ceratonia Siliqua, Gleditschia).
