CHAPTER II
PERIODIC PHENOMENA OF VEGETATION WITHIN
THE TEMPERATE ZONES
Introduction, i. Metabolism and Interchange of Energy in Mesothermic
Plants at Different Seasons, i. Periodicity in the gean-tree. Processes that are
visible externally. Development of the flower-buds in the gean-tree. Grand periods and
temperature. Season of rest and temperature. Carbohydrates in the periods of activity
and repose. Effects of temperature on the solution and re-formation of starch, ii. Starch-
trees and Fat-trees. Causes of the formation and disappearance of fat. iii. Theory of
Forcing. The two conditions of protoplasm. The resting condition prolonged by low
temperatures. Suppression of growth in length. Oecological optimum temperature in
the active period coinciding with the natural temperature, iv. Periodicity of Herbaceous
Plants. The sweetening of potatoes, v. Cold and Drought. Similar effects of winter
period and dry period. 2. Periodic Aspects of Vegetation, i. General Considerations.
Winter phenomena. Plants flowering in winter in Japan. Cold and the development
of flowers, ii. Periodic Phenomena in the South Temperate Zone. Chili. South
Africa. South Australia.
INTRODUCTION.
Even at a short distance outside the tropics, indeed occasionally within
them, for instance in South China, the periodic change of temperature
makes its influence felt on vegetation. With otherwise equally favour-
able conditions as regards moisture a retardation in the phenomena
of plant-life is unmistakable, and the times of flowering are rigidly
associated with the alternation of cold and hot seasons. Such dependence
is specially evident in plants when they are transplanted from higher into
lower latitudes. Thus the periodic phenomena of introduced Central
European broad-leaved trees in Madeira, where the mean temperature
of the coldest month (January) is 15 C. and that of the hottest (August)
22-2° C, resemble those in their native country ; and Viola odorata in Santa
Catharina (South Brazil) produces its entomophilous flowers, according to
F. Muller, from March until December, but at the height of summer
usually bears cleistogamous flowers only.
The lower the winter temperatures, the greater of course becomes the
difference in the vegetation in the cold and hot seasons respectively, in
particular where there is a moist summer-climate. In districts with a
dry summer, for instance the steppes, and to a still greater degree in
