432 ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. II
deserts, not only the difference in the temperature but also that in the
moisture comes into play.
The following considerations relate chiefly to the cold belt of the north
temperate zone, as at present precise physiological observations on the
warm or sub-tropical belts are lacking ; at the same time, in the sub-tropical
belts we have to deal with the same phenomena as occur further north,
though in a less pronounced form.
i. METABOLISM AND INTERCHANGE OF ENERGY IN
MESOTHERMIC PLANTS AT DIFFERENT SEASONS.
i. PERIODICITY IN THE GEAN-TREE.
A description will not be given here of periodic phenomena easily visible
without detailed investigation, such as foliation and defoliation, the develop-
ment of the flowers and the maturing of the fruit, as these are generally
known. But quite recently we have begun to gain a better insight into
these processes, by means of physiological experiments and of the
microscope, and thus to prepare the way for their explanation. It is to
be hoped that a careful consideration here of these investigations may
stimulate similar observations and experiments in other climates.
The periodic phenomena in a cold temperate climate appear on the
whole to run the same course throughout the entire vegetable kingdom,
except in annuals and a few plants that are constantly in blossom. Yet
in details manifold differences reveal themselves, so that it seems advisable
to direct our attention first of all to a definite example. The gean-tree,
Prunus avium, appears to be eminently suitable, as it has been thoroughly
investigated by several authors, specially by Askenasy and A. Fischer,
and at any rate noticed by others ; it can moreover serve as a type of
the majority of our broad-leaved trees.
Roughly considered, the season of activity and the season of rest of the
gean-tree in South and Central Germany include each about six months —
the active period from about the middle of April to the middle of October,
the resting period during the remainder of the year.
During the period of rest, the branches are leafless and bear only scaly
buds, which, as will be shown hereafter, are nearly always actually growing.
This growth is however usually extremely slow, and in default of exact
measurements is first noticeable towards the end of the period of rest
as swelling.
The most significant moments during the active period are, as regards
the reproductive functions, the flowering time in April or May, and the
ripening of the fruit in June or July. The vegetative phenomena 1 that
1 Askenasy, op. cit.
