4 THE FACTORS [Part I
2. Abundance of soluble salts in the soil. A small quantity of salt favours
absorption, whilst a large quantity impedes it. The degree of concentration
at which the retardation commences varies with the species of plant, but
rarely exceeds 0-5 °/ o . Mixtures of salts impede absorption more than pure
salts, and certain kinds, for example sodium chloride, act more energetically
than others, for example saltpetre 1 .
3. Richness of the soil in Jiumous acids.
4. Low temperature of the soil. A frozen soil is quite dry to all plants ;
one at a temperature slightly above freezing-point is nearly dry to most
plants. The minimum temperature for a normal absorption of water, that
is to say for an absorption of water sufficient to compensate for the loss by
transpiration through open stomata, varies with the species of plant, being
generally much higher for those of warm zones than [for plants whose lives
are spent in colder zones.
Factors favouring Transpiration.
1. A dry atmosphere. Although transpiration is a physiological and not
a physical process, yet it behaves in respect of this factor essentially
like evaporation : it constantly increases in proportion to the dryness of
the air.
2. High temperature of the atmosphere. Transpiration increases with the
temperature up to a maximum which varies with the species, and beyond
which pathological changes cause a diminution.
3. Rarefaction of the air. A reduction in the atmospheric pressure
accelerates transpiration, not directly, as in the case of evaporation, but
indirectly by accelerating the diffusion of the water-vapour.
4. Light. Transpiration is greater in the presence of light than in
darkness, and it increases with the intensity of the illumination. The more
effective rays of light, according to Wiesner, are, first, the blue ; secondly,
the red ; while the green rays exercise only a feeble influence.
Of the factors that accelerate transpiration, temperature and light are the
weakest, and do not in themselves suffice to produce decided xerophilous
characteristics.
All plants with an environment involving cither one or other or a
combination of any of the above factors, excepting light and temperature,
possess the structure and characteristics of xerophytes.
Xerophilous Structure.
As has been already stated, many plants are able to thrive under very
diverse conditions of water-supply by altering their structure in relation
to their environment. The necessary investigations have been made as
regards four of the above factors — dryness of the substratum, atmospheric
1 See Part I, Chap V, The Soil.
