Chap. II] PERIODIC PHENOMENA IN TEMPERATE ZONES 433
are externally visible fall into three periods : (a) a period of growth of the
foliage-buds (April-May), (b) a period of assimilation during which axes
and roots grow in thickness 1 and the winter buds are formed (May-
September), and (c) a period of retardation and decline terminating in
the autumnal leaf-fall. Amongst all these phenomena, that of the
development of buds, especially of the flower-buds, has proved best
adapted for the study of the periodic phenomena in their separate
details.
According to Askenasy, who was the first to conduct a thorough
investigation into these matters, the development of the flower-buds of
the gean-tree is distributed over two periods, which are separated by
a period of rest, or rather of extremely slow growth. The period of
rest, at Heidelberg, lasts from about the end of October to the beginning
of February, that is to say about three and a half months; it is therefore
considerably shorter than the period included between the more striking
features of defoliation and sprouting of the buds that is usually described
as the period of rest. Next year's foliage-buds are already laid down
at the flowering time ; those of the flowers in the course of July.
The growth of the buds during the first growing period, i. e. during
the summer and early autumn, is very slow and uniform up to the
commencement of the period of rest, when it becomes almost nil.
At the beginning of the second or spring period of growth progress
is at first still slow, but becomes gradually more rapid, and finally so
rapid that, towards the end of their development, the flower-buds in
6-10 days increase to double and treble their fresh weight. Growth
is constantly accelerated till shortly before maturity, but is retarded
immediately before its close. The whole development therefore affords
a splendid example of Sachs' grand period of growth.
In the increase in size of the buds water naturally takes a greater
share than does dry material. Of the total weight of freshly blown
buds I may be placed to the credit of spring growth, | to that of summer
growth. The dry weights however are in the ratio of f : £. A hundred
buds during the spring period increase in dry weight by 6 grammes. If
the tree possesses 200,000 flower-buds — mostly too low an estimate — for
their formation 12 kilos, of dry material are necessary.
The curve of growth of the gean-flower, characterized as it is by a
sudden sharp ascent, is only occasionally, and then merely to a certain
extent, dependent on temperature. Any influence of temperature is not
discernible during the summer period, and even during the spring period
variations of temperature cannot alter the course of the curve of groivtJi.
In other words, if the temperature in February be higher than in March.
1 According to von Mohl, roots continue their circumferential growth, however slowly,
during winter.
SCHIMIER P f
