434
ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. II
the growth in March will still be more energetic than that in February
and proceed with increasing rapidity. If however we compare several
years with one another, the influence of temperature appears very plainly,
as the curve in a warm spring is steeper and leads to an earlier flowering
than in a cold spring. At the same time Askenasy has not taken into
account very low temperatures, which are not uncommon in March; it
remains for botanists to investigate the course of the grand period, in
the case of slight frosts in spring — severe frost is known to kill the
growing buds.
The dominating influence of inherent characters over the effects of
temperature is still more remarkable than the features exhibited by the
grand period ; this is revealed in the fact that a rise of temperature in
October does not awaken the resting buds into activity, whereas it does
so from the end of November onwards, and is the more effective the
nearer the commencement of the rise is to the end of the normal resting
period. The phenomenon cannot be due to growth having taken place
in the interval, for the increased weight of the buds from the beginning
of October to the end of November is hardly appreciable, and the stalks
of the buds apparently remain at the same stage of development.
In illustration of the above we may give the following short tabular
statement regarding the sprouting of branches of the gean-tree ; there are
no early dates in the table, as the experiment was first begun in December.
SPROUTING OF BRANCHES OF THE GEAN-TREE UNDER A RISE
OF TEMPERATURE. (After Askenasy.)
Date of placing in
First flower
Number of days
the hot-house.
opened.
elapsed.
14 December
10 January
27
10 January
28 January
18
2 February
19 February
17
2 March
14 March
12
11 March
21-22 March
10J
23 March
31 March
8
3 April
8 April
5
To the external periodicity revealed in the phenomena of growth there
is a corresponding internal periodicity in the processes of metabolism 1 .
From the moment when the leaves are fully grown until their fall, a
continual stream of assimilated matter flows from the green cells into
the branches and stem. Products of assimilation free from nitrogen,
which we alone consider, because those containing nitrogen are too little
known, travel in the form of easily diffusible glucose ; on the way, this
1 Alf. Fischer, op. cit.
