Chap. II] PERIODIC PHENOMENA IN TEMPERATE ZONES 435
is however occasionally converted into starch (transitory starch). The
path of this stream of glucose is always the same. It is determined in
the leaves by the elongated parenchyma-cells of the nerves and petiole,
and in the axes is confined to the cortical parenchyma. From the cortex
the stream flows horizontally into the wood, where the parenchyma-cells
gradually fill with starch, whilst the vessels retain as such the glucose
they have received from the parenchyma. There is no descending current
of assimilated matter in the wood.
The commencement of leaf -fall indicates in the tree the moment at which
the tree contains the greatest amount of assimilated matter {autumnal maxi-
mum). From now onwards up to the beginning of the next vegetative
season a continual diminution in that amount takes place, at first slowly,
but finally very rapidly.
Immediately after reaching its autumnal maximum, which is also
specially that of starch (autumnal starch-maximum), the assimilated matter
within the axes is distributed in the following manner : — The parenchyma of
the cortex and of the medullary rays is rich in starch and glucose ; the
cambium contains neither. The wood contains much starch but no glucose
in its living cells, much glucose but no starch in the vessels. The medul-
lary sheath is rich in both substances ; on the other hand they occur in
the pith here and there only.
Shortly after leaf-fall the starch completely disappears from the cortex,
as it is converted partly into glucose and some fat, partly into some still
unknown bodies (species of sugar). The wood is somewhat poorer in
glucose than during summer, but shows no perceptible diminution in the
quantity of starch it contains.
The buds at the time of the starch-maximum contain no glucose, but
the scales are rich in starch, and the pith still more so. The embryonic
organs are devoid of starch and glucose.
Towards the end of winter, even before any externally visible changes
indicate the commencement of the vegetative season, activity commences in
the interior of the tree. The cortex free from starch becomes again filled
with this substance, clearly at the cost of the glucose and of the unknown
bodies formed during autumn (spring starch-maximum). This condition
is only of short duration. The starch is again partly converted into
glucose and this flows into the vessels. In the vessels the current of sap
sets itself in motion and provides the buds — hitherto poorly supplied with
water and nutriment — with water and glucose.
Even in the buds, movements in the reserve-material have taken place
during the winter-sleep. The starch has left the pith, where it was at
first so abundant, and has now accumulated in the embryonic leaves and
flowers, from which hitherto it had been absent. It is reserve-material, and
just suffices for the first stages in the flushing of the buds, that is, up to
F f 3
