Chap. II] PERIODIC PHENOMENA IN TEMPERATE ZONES 437
in the wood remains unaltered. In the group of fat- trees, which are chiefly
soft-wooded species, such as conifers, birches, and lime-trees., all the starch
in the cortex and wood is converted into fat, and this condition lasts until
spring, when the fat is reconverted into starch.
The formation of fat from starch, and of starch from fat, like the changes
mentioned above in the cortex of the gean-tree, are dependent, on the
one hand, on inherent characters possessed only during the season of rest,
and, on the other hand, on the temperature. The production of fat does
not take place while the atmosphere is warm, and any fat that may be
present is then converted into starch.
iii. THEORY OF FORCING.
The protoplasm of the plants of temperate zones exists in tivo conditions^
one active and one quiescent. The regular periodic alternation of these
conditions, as in the tropics, is occasioned by inherent hereditary characters,
and they are distinguished by the difference in their behaviour in relation
to temperature, as well as by other features.
In active protoplasm, by means of higher temperatures stimuli are set up
that induce the processes of growth, whereas lower degrees of heat result in
a general cessation of growth.
In quiescent protoplasm even optimum temperatures do not call forth
phenomena of growth ; on the other hand, changes of temperature produce
a reaction in the form of metabolic changes, and these are induced in part
by lower and in part by higher temperatures.
The quiescent condition of the protoplasm is of much shorter duration
than its active condition, and by no means persists through the whole
normal period of rest. This period of rest is in its second and greater
part a direct result of low temperature, and it may accordingly be shortened
in this part by a rise in temperature. The forcing of plants depends on
this circumstance. On the contrary, the first part of the period of rest,
which in the gean-tree lasts from the middle of October to the end of
November, but in other woody plants is often shorter (for instance Forsythia
viridissima) or longer (Fagus sylvatica), depends exclusively on inherent
characters and is not influenced by a rise of temperature. It is quite
useless, and even harmful, to try to begin forcing before the end of this
necessary period of rest, as buds even under the most favourable tempera-
ture remain in their winter condition. Transition from the one condition
to the other is slow, and forcing will be in any one case more rapid the
more imminent was the completion of the change of the quiescent proto-
plasm into active protoplasm. Low temperatures accelerate the transition.
Horticultural experiments, purely practical in nature but none the less
valuable on that account, made particularly on fruit-trees with the object of
accelerating development (forcing), most clearly demonstrate the existence
