438 ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. II
of a period of rest that is independent of external influences. These experi-
ments have also determined the optimum temperatures for the develop-
ment of the flowers and fruits of temperate trees, and though not adequately
appreciated they have put an end to a chaos of false statements regarding
the connexion between temperature and periodicity.
Most fruit-trees are suitable for forcing only after a few frosts, which
accelerate the transition to the active condition, so that, for instance, the
forcing of the peach-tree cannot be commenced before January ; in Belgium,
however, it succeeds from November onwards. The vine, on the other
hand, comes into a condition in which it can be forced at temperatures some-
what above zero.
When forcing is commenced the temperature need by no means be high,
and, at most, should not exceed 6° to 8° C. It is gradually raised, but
never actually above the temperatures prevailing in nature during the
corresponding stages of development. Higher temperatures cause ab-
normal features, such as excessively long shoots, defective formation of
wood, atrophy of flowers, and so forth. It is especially necessary that
the temperature be kept low during the flowering time, and, in the case
of stone-fruits, during the stoning, otherwise the flowers or young fruits
drop off. The growth of the fruit, however, demands higher temperatures
than does the development of the flower-buds, but for late autumnal fruits
(grapes) moderate final temperatures are again necessary.
Night-temperatures must be kept from 2 to 4 centigrade degrees lower
than day-temperatures ; otherwise hypertrophic phenomena set in.
It follows from the above-mentioned and other phenomena that the opti-
mum temperatures for the processes of growth in length are higher than
those for other processes — such as the formation of flower, the development
of wood — so that higher temperatures favour the former at the expense of the
latter. Experience in the cultivation of temperate woody plants in warmer
zones completely confirms this ; as there also growth is greatly accelerated 1 .
Light retards growth, and it is possibly owing to this fact that forced
plants withstand higher temperatures by day and in the sun than by
night or on a cloudy day.
The general results of the experience of practical men amount to this,
that in the case of our fruit-trees the degrees of temperature naturally
prevailing during the vegetative season approximately correspond to the
optimum for the formation of flower and fruit, as well as for the formation
of wood, but are below the optimum for the processes of growth of foliage-
shoots. Hence the forcing of fruit-trees is generally confined, in the first
place, to the abolition of that portion of the period of rest that is due
to low temperatures, and, in the second place, to imitating as closely
as possible the temperatures prevailing during the different stages of
1 See p. 48 ff.
