Chap. II] PERIODIC PHENOMENA IN TEMPERATE ZONES 441
follows only after frost, and is confined to leaves exposed to the direct
rays of the sun. The yellow colour is due to a partial decomposition
of the chlorophyll, the red colour is caused either by a red pigment in
the chlorophyll-corpuscles (Thuya, Buxus), or by anthocyan in the cell-sap
(Hex, Hedera, Mahonia) 1 . Many species of Pinus assume a characteristic
appearance in winter because their fascicled needles become adpressed
to the twigs, owing to certain hitherto unexplained physiological causes.
In contrast with woody vegetation, evergreen species predominate in
the herbaceous vegetation, so that meadows retain their fresh green
appearance in mild winters and present yellow tints only during persistently
hard frost. Many herbs however develop anthocyan during the winter,
but as this discoloration is usually absent from grasses, it is far less
apparent than among woody plants. Many herbaceous perennials are
only transitorily green ; the death of the subaerial shoots frequently
happens even during summer, and is therefore probably due to inherent
causes.
It is well known that flowers are never entirely lacking at any season,
as during mild weather many species, like Bellis perennis, Senecio vulgaris,
Veronica hederaefolia, blossom even in winter. True winter-flowering
plants, however, do not occur in the markedly cold belts of the temperate
zones ; the species just mentioned flower really throughout the year
and still more freely in the warmer seasons. On the other hand, the
warmer belts produce a number of plants whose flowering season falls
in the months from November to February. Rein 2 makes the following
remarks regarding the winter-flora of Japan: —
' Towards the end of October the woodland that is green in summer
is leafless, as with us [i. e. in Central Europe], and there are only a few
plants that have not entered upon their winter rest. These are chiefly
shrubs and trees that are green in winter . . . the flowering of which
occurs during the earliest winter months. Among them are Olea
Aquifolium, Sieb. et Zucc, Aralia japonica, Thunbg., and some other
Araliaceae, which blossom in November ; Thea chinensis, Sims, and
Camellia Sasanqua, Thunbg., whose flowering time is in November and
December, and whose last buds are killed by night-frosts ; a few species
of Daphne, which blossom in January and February ; and above all
Camellia japonica, which in this season sometimes affords the surprising
spectacle of bearing simultaneously flowers and snow, but whose flowering
time is prolonged until April.
'Among herbs we find still fewer species whose flowering time falls
in late autumn or actually extends into winter proper ; among such are
a few Compositae, especially Pyrethrum and Aster.'
Even in the warmer belts winter-flowering plants are scanty. The
1 Schimper, op. cit., p. 166. 2 Rein, op. cit., p. 155.
