442 ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. II
commencement of the true flowering season usually coincides with that
of the vegetative season in spring and ends with the cessation of this
season in autumn. The beginning and end of the flowering season are
dependent to a great extent on the temperature, and therefore not only
fail to coincide at different places, but also in different years at the same
place. But the action of the inherent rhythm always proves stronger than
that of temperature, so that the awakening of vegetation very often occurs
at a lower temperature than does its falling asleep.
It has been already shown 1 , that in the temperate zones low tempera-
tures usually favour the inception of reproductive organs, and that the
growth of these organs is completed in very many instances within lower
limits of temperature, or at any rate possesses a lower optimum than is
the case with foliage-shoots. The dissimilar action of temperature on the
reproductive and vegetative organs respectively has not only been proved
experimentally, but is also apparent in nature, especially in lower crypto-
gams and mosses, the sexual activity of which very often coincides with
winter, whilst their vegetative activity occurs during the warm months.
In phanerogams this connexion is less clear, owing to a number of opposing
circumstances. Thus, many herbaceous plants can commence forming
flowers only after they have assimilated the needful material ; the formation
of assimilating organs however, like assimilation itself, demands higher
temperatures. Other plants again are adapted to certain pollinators and
flower at a time when these are active. In spite of such limitations, the
favourable influence of low temperatures on the reproductive organs in
relation to the periodicity of phanerogams is unmistakable when we
consider those plants alone that produce the plastic materials for the
manufacture of flowers in the preceding vegetative season.
It is well known that, in the temperate zones, most herbaceous perennials
belonging to the Liliaceae, Amaryllidaceae, Iridaceae are early-flowering ;
in Mediterranean countries Orchidaceae and Araceae also are among the
earliest spring-flowering plants. Many Dicotylcdones with rhizomes or
roots rich in nutriment, such as Anemone, Helleborus, Eranthis, Corydalis,
Ficaria, behave similarly. A few bulbous plants flower in autumn, such
as Colchicum autumnale, Spiranthes autumnalis, Crocus sativus, Cyclamen
europaeum. The majority of trees are also early-flowering and frequently
open their flowers earlier, and therefore at lower temperatures, than their
leaves. The indigenous examples, with which the ivy as a late-flowering
plant is included, are sufficiently well known. I had noticed the same
feature in the much richer tree-flora of North America, and an analysis
of the flowering times of the trees in Asa Gray's Manual of the Botany
of the Northern United States has confirmed my observations. Of 141
species referred to in the above work as being trees or arborescent shrubs —
1 See p. 48.
