Chap. II] PERIODIC PHENOMENA IN TEMPERATE ZONES 443
I have not considered true shrubs — no commenced flowering from March
until May, 25 in June, 6 in July ; in August merely the close of the flower-
ing time of a few July-flowering trees occurred. The connexion between
the opening of the flowers and the cooler temperatures appears specially
striking, if we consider that spring is colder in the Northern States of
America than in South and Central Germany, so that May in Boston is
scarcely comparable with April in the Central Rhenish districts.
ii. PERIODIC PHENOMENA IN THE SOUTH TEMPERATE ZONE.
The literature to which I have access contains but few data regarding
the periodic phenomena of the south temperate zone.
A pamphlet of Harm's on the climate of Central Chili gives the following informa-
tion. In June (corresponding to our December) the almond-trees flower, also
wild violets, hyacinths, Ranunculi, Acacia cavenia. In July and August, Datura
arborea, Richardia aethiopica, Heliotropium (peruvianum ?). In August there
blossom cherries, peaches, plums, Acacia lophanta, a species of Fumaria, and
a number of indigenous Amaryllidaceae and anemones. Pear-trees and apple-
trees blossom in the first half of September; fig-trees and Lombardy poplar are
fully in foliage by the end of this month. Lilac, Gladiolus byzantinus, carnations,
and a number of other garden-plants develop their flowers in October. By the
middle of November the first strawberries are ripe ; olive-trees flower in this
month. Wheat and barle}^ are harvested in December ; strawberries, figs, cherries,
melons, apricots ripen. In March and April beans, capsicums, and potatoes are
collected ; grapes are ripe enough to be picked between the 20th and 30th April.
TEMPERATURE AND RAINFALL IN SANTIAGO.
Dec.
Jan.
-Feb.
Mar.
Apr.
May
June
July
Aug.
Sep.
Oct.
Nov.
Temp. Cent.
1 8-2
18-9
1 8-4
16-4
I3-I
9-6
7-8
7-3
8-3
70-4
107
13-0
15-8
Rainfall in mm.
64
00
i-3
2-5
13-7
51-6
IOO-2
105.8
41-8
17-9
149
Reiche 1 makes the following remarks about the vegetation of Rio Maule (about
35 S.) : ' The commencement of the cycle of vegetation may conveniently be
reckoned from the flowering of Oxalis lobata ; this happens in April, after the
termination of the summer drought, and reaches its climax in May. During this
period, under the influence of the first rains, the hitherto yellowish or reddish
brown steppe, which was either bare or covered with the parched remains of
vegetation, becomes clad with green verdure. The latter consists of seedlings
of Erodium cicutarium, Lupinus microcarpus, Medicago denticulata, as well as the
leaves of Scilla, Achyrophorus, Soliva, Briza and other grasses. During the
actual rainy season the campo retains its green tint, slightly interrupted by flowers ;
here and there appear Stenandrium dulce (rose coloured), or from August onwards,
Anemone decapetala (white or blue). From September onwards the picture
becomes more embellished every day; at first the numerous fiery red corollas
1 Reiche, op. cit., II, p. 26.
