444 ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. II
of Habranthus phycelloides attract attention principally on the mountain sides ;
then Triteleia porrifolia dominates, and in October and the beginning of November,
the chief flowering season of the year, it becomes impossible to name any plants
that are specially prominent. But even then the first signs of the desiccation and
death of the vegetation appear on specially exposed points, particularly in the
disappearance of the species of Tillaea and of Poa annua. At the same time,
from the end of September or the beginning of October the deciduous trees (Fagus
obliqua, poplars, fruit-trees) become adorned with new leaves and eventually
with flowers. From the end of October onwards, the abundance of flowers
steadily decreases; Alstroemeria Liglu and Habranthus chilensis, locally with
the Compositae Triptilion spinosum and Cephalophora plantaginea, again impart
a floral beauty that lasts till December. Finally, Noticastrum Haplopappus,
Madia sativa, Wahlenbergia linarioides, Cephalophora aromatica, Boisduvalia
concinna, with occasional stragglers of other species, remain as the last flowering
herbs in the otherwise brownish-yellow tract. The reappearance of Oxalis lobata
finally heralds the appearance of a new vegetative period. In the ravines occupied
by numerous shrubs, and in the forests, this cycle of change is less marked ;
but it is quite apparent both in the vegetation of herbaceous perennials and in
the vital activity of woody plants (sprouting, flowering, fruiting).'
Just as in Central Chili, so also near Cape Town, there are flowers at every
season, but chiefly in spring ; September is the month that is richest in flowers ;
autumn is poor in blossom. According to Thode 1 , winter (May-July) is characterized
by the flowering of Oxalidaceae ; spring (August-October) particularly by that of
Compositae, Iridaceae, Ficoideae, Proteaceae ; summer (November-January) by
that of Geraniaceae and Crassulaceae ; and autumn (February- April) by that of
Amaryllidaceae. East Cape Colony also has chiefly spring flowers.
According to Behr 2 , herbaceous plants in South Australia flower shortly after
the end of the rainy season ; the Eucalypti and Acacia retinodes in spring ; the
Loranthi in the midst of the dry season. The scrub blossoms chiefly at the
beginning of the dry season, in September, October, and November, but also
throughout its whole duration ; on the other hand, the rainy season is very poor in
flowers (Astroloma and others). The grassland puts on the whole of its floral
beauty all at once, at the beginning of summer.
In the districts enumerated above, which in some cases possess summer rain,
and in others winter rain, the beneficial influence of the cool temperature on the
development of flowers is universally revealed in the form of an after-effect. In
other respects conclusions regarding the effective factors cannot be drawn from
such scanty data.
SELECT LITERATURE.
Askenasy, E. Ueber die jahrliche Periode der Knospen. Botanische Zeitung.
Bd. XXXVII. 1877.
Behr, H. Ober die Verhaltnisse der siidaustralischen Flora im Allgemeinen.
Linnaea. Bd. XXII. 1847.
Brandis, D. Effect of Seasons upon the Flowering of Plants. Indian Forester,
1882. Also Nature, 1882.
1 Thode, op. cit. 2 Behr, op. cit., p. 552.
