CHAPTER IV
THE CONSTANTLY MOIST AND MOIST SUMMER
DISTRICTS OF THE WARM TEMPERATE BELTS
i. The Subtropical and Temperate Rain-Forest, i. The Subtropical Rain-Forest.
Character. Distribution. South Brazil. North Argentina. Coast of the Gulf of Mexico
and Florida, ii. The Temperate Rain-Forest in Genera/. Oecological and floristic
character. Distribution, iii. The Temperate Rain-Forest in New Zealand. Hochstetter's
description. Oecological features according to Diels. iv. The Temperate Rain-Forest
in Australia, v. The Temperate Rain- Forest in South Japan, vi. The Temperate Rain-
Forest in South Chili. Valdivia according to Philippi. Juan Fernandez according to
Johow. 2. The Xerophilous Woodland Formation of the Warm Temperate Belts,
i. Thorn- Woodland. Character and distribution. 'Espinal-formation ' in Argentina,
ii. Savannah-Forest. Cebil-forest in North Argentina. Eucalyptus-forest in Australia.
3. Grassland Formation of the Warm Temperate Belts, i. Distribution. Northern
belt. Savannah in Texas and New Mexico. ii. Grassland in South Africa. Thode
on British Kaffraria. Transvaal, iii. Grassland in South America ; Pampas. Descrip-
tion by Lorentz. iv. Grassland in Australia. The South Australian savannah according
to Schomburgk.
i. THE SUBTROPICAL AND TEMPERATE RAIN-FOREST.
As in the tropics, so in belts of the temperate zones with a mild winter,
districts with abundant rain (at least 120 cm.) at all seasons are occupied
by rain-forest, that is to say by evergreen hygrophilous forest, but on sandy
soil or in swamps by coniferous forest.
i. THE SUBTROPICAL RAIN-FOREST.
The tropical rain-forest occasionally extends beyond the tropics, at first
without losing its characteristic features, but with a gradual reduction in
its wealth of forms and a decrease in specifically tropical peculiarities,
such as large leaves, plank-buttresses, woody lianes, woody epiphytes,
epiphyllous epiphytes, caulifiory, water-storing calyces. The presence of
certain temperate forms adds a distinguishing feature of a positive nature
to these last traces of the tropical rain-forest, which may be termed sub-
tropical rain-forest. To this subtropical or as we may say impoverished
tropical rain-forest, belong those of North Mexico (Fig. 238), of the
southern extremity of Florida and the neighbouring Key Islands, of the
most southern part of Brazil (Rio Grande do Sul), of the eastern declivity of
