472 ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. II
the Cordilleras in North Argentina (Oran,Tucuman), the scanty rain-forests
of Natal, and possibly the somewhat different forests of Queensland and
New South Wales. It is difficult to draw the line between these forests
and the much more peculiar temperate rain-forests that will be subsequently
described ; such subtropical rain-forests frequently form a connecting link
between these temperate rain-forests and tropical rain-forests.
The tropical rain-forest of the Brazilian coast near Santa Catharina at about 27 S.
appeared to me no less luxuriant and rich in forms, no less distinguished by the char-
acteristic oecological forms of the tropical forest, than the forests of Rio de Janeiro,
or those of Trinidad (n° N.). According to Ihering it is not until Rio Grande do Sul
is reached that there is a considerable reduction in the number of tropical forms asso-
ciated with the advent of new non-tropical ones, while simultaneously the tropical
aspect becomes lost owing to the disappearance of lianes and epiphytes. This forest
attains its southerly limit between 31 and 32° S. on the last slopes of the Serra dos
Taypes.
The tropical forest of Bolivia, like that of Brazil, extends beyond the tropic of
Capricorn, becoming gradually poorer in type but enriched by temperate forms;
it, however, terminates in Tucuman, between 27 and 28 S. The impoverishment
of the type that occurs here is in particular exhibited in the reduction of the
diversity and dimensions of the woody lianes and the phanerogamous epiphytes,
which still are in Tucuman represented by a few orchids (Oncidium), as well as by
a few species of Rhipsalis and Peperomia and the dominant Bromeliaceae. In
comparison with the true temperate rain-forest, which will be subsequently de-
scribed, the trees grow more profusely mixed and attain large dimensions. A rich,
partly small-leaved and partly large-leaved underwood of Dicotyledones — tree-
ferns and bamboos are absent — more or less completely fills up the intervals
between them.
The finest trees in the rain-forest of Tucuman, according to Lorentz, are :
Machaerium fertile (attaining a height of about 150 feet), Nectandra porphyria, Juglans
nigra, Linn., var. boliviana, DC, Cupania uruguensis and C. vernalis, Cedrela brasi-
liensis, var. australis, species of Acacia, Eugenia Mato and E. uniflora, Myrsine
floribunda and M. marginata, Chorisia insignis (a bombaceous tree with swollen
spiny stems), Pentapanax sp. ; small trees are among others Terminalia sp. (lanza
amarilla), Ruprechtia excelsa, Schmidelia edulis, Achatocarpus nigricans, Erythro-
xylum ovatum, Randia pubescens, Kageneckia amygdalifolia, various Solanaceae
such as Iochroma arborea, Solanum verbascifolium, S. pulchrum.
Among the humbler, more or less shrubby woody plants, Lorentz distinguishes
some hard-wooded species, that sometimes become arborescent and have stiffer and
smaller leaves, such as CeltisTola, C. acuminata, Acacia tucumanensis, all three spiny
plants and more like lianes, Enkea Sieberi, Pisonia hirtella, Abutilon niveum, from
others that are lower in stature, less woody and have broad leaves, such as Phyto-
lacca bogotensis, Celosia major, Chamissoa celosioides, Acalypha cordifolia, Phenax
urticifolius, Boehmeria caudata, some Solanaceae.
The largest lianes are bignoniaceous. Besides these there are climbing in the
forest various Leguminosae, such as Canavalia gladiata, Desmodium adscendens,
