480 ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. II
obstacle to the epiphytic mode of life, for during its continuance the roots
cannot utilize the atmospheric precipitations that fall on the bark. Hence
only phanerogams that in the tropics are adapted to the greatest drought
can as epiphytes colonize districts with wintry cold, and then only when,
like the above-mentioned tropical emigrants in North America, they can
withstand low temperatures in the epiphytic state 1 .
Of observations made on the spot upon the structure and mode of life
of plants in the temperate rain-forests only a few are available, and these
refer to the rain-forests in New Zealand (Figs. 248, 249) and Valdivia, which
are the most interesting, because most isolated of them.
iii. THE TEMPERATE RAIN-FOREST IN NEW ZEALAND.
Hochstetter 2 gives the following popular description of the temperate
rain-forest in New Zealand : —
' On entering the " Bush "—as in New Zealand the forest is called — it is again
ferns that principally meet the eye, magnificent Tree-ferns, their trunks as if coated
with scales, and with neatly shaped crowns (Dicksonia and Cyathea) ; Hymeno-
ph}dla and Polypodia in the most different varieties, which cover with luxuriant
growth the trunks of the forest trees ; the singular form of the Kidney-fern
(Trichomanes reniforme), the round, kidney-shaped leaves, the edges of which
are bordered with seed pods ; ferns between the branches and twigs of the trees ;
ferns on the ground ; bulbiferous Asplenia (Asplenium bulbiferum), tender species
of Goniopteris and Leptopteris ; in short all sorts and varieties of ferns.
' But in the woods also there are scarcely any gay flowers and blossoms ; but
few herbaceous plants, nothing but shrubs and trees ; shrubs with obscure green
flowers. . . . Only few trees grow gregarious, and are prominent in the landscape
by their appearing either in closed forests or as separate clumps and groves.
These are the Kauri (Dammara Australis), the Kahikatea (Podocarpus dacry-
dioides), and the Tawai (black birch, Fagus fusca). With the exception of the
Kauri forests in the North, the Kahikatea forests on marshy and swampy river
banks, and the black birch forest upon South Island, we find nothing that would
suffer a comparison with the individual character of our pine, beech, and oak
forests. . . .
' Among the chief ornaments of the mixed forest are the various species of pines.
Totara (Podocarpus Totara) and Matai (Podocarpus spicata) are large and beautiful
trees found in every forest. Rimu (Dacrydium cupressinum) is distinguished by
hanging leaves and branches; Tanekaha (Phyllocladus trichomanoides) by its
parsley-shaped leaves. Alongside of them towers the poplar-shaped Rewarewa
(Knightia excelsa), belonging to the Proteaceae ; the Hinau (Elaeocarpus Hinau),
the fruit of which is the favourite food of the parrots. . . . The Kowai (Edwardsia
1 Such first steps towards epiphytism, namely, the occasional occurrence of terrestrial
plants on trees, according to Johow (op. cit., p. 250), are common in the rain-forests of
/Juan Fernandez.
/ 2 Hochstetter, op. cit., p. 133.
