490 ZONES AND REGIONS [Ft. Ill, Sect. II
plants, common in the forests near Puerto Montt, are Aralia valdiviensis, C. Gay,
Boquila (Lardizabala) trifoliata, Decne, Ercilla volubilis, A. Juss., which extends as
far as Peru, Echites chilensis, A. DC, and one or two species of Cynoctonum. The
beautiful Lapageria rosea, Ruiz et Pav., with its rose-red, lily-like bell-flowers,
undoubtedly the finest ornament of the forests, is common everywhere from Osorno
to Concepcion, and is a climber, the thin wire-like stems of which give no little
trouble to any one wishing to leave the path and walk in the forest. . . . The com-
monest forest trees here are the Vauvan (Laurelia serrata, Phil.), and the Coigne,
also named the Roble (Fagus Dombeyi, Mirb.), a magnificent tree, with horizontal
branches and small evergreen foliage. In this country it affords the most durable
timber, resisting humidity best of all, but is not nearl}' so common as further north,
where gigantic trees may be seen, whose hollowed-out stems form canoes large
enough to hold seven to nine persons. The Canelo (Drimys chilensis, DC.) is
common, also the Tineo or Tenui (Weinmannia trichosperma, Cav.), with graceful
pinnate leaves, the Tiaca (Caldciuvia paniculata, Don.), the Tique or Palo muerto
(Aextoxicon punctatum, Ruiz et Pav.), the Sahuco falco (Aralia laetevirens, Gay),
the Luma (Myrtus Luma, Molina), with very hard, tough wood, a moderate-sized
tree ; finally, among conifers, Saxegothaea conspicua, Lindl.. which I might compare
with our yew as regards its mode of growth and foliage, and Podocarpus nubigena,
Lindl., the needles of which closely resemble those of our silver fir. . . . The
valuable Lingue (Persea Lingue, Nees) does not occur here. Underwood is chiefly
composed of Berberis Darwinii, Hook., and B. buxifolia, Lamk., Azara lanceolata,
Hook, f., whose numerous golden flowers fill the air with perfume, Citharexylum
cyanocarpum, Hook, et Am., Eugenia apiculata, DC, and E. planipes, Hook, et Am.,
as well as Myrtus Ugni, Molina, finally the Tepu (Tepualia stipularis, Griseb.). It
forms along the banks of streams and other humid places a completely impenetrable
thicket, named Tepuales.'
The island of Mas-a-Ticrra, the greatest of the Juan Fernandez Archi-
pelago, although situated in about the same latitude as Santiago in Chili
(about 36 S.), possesses a much more rainy climate, and is partly covered
with rain-forest, which, in accordance with the insular position, is less rich
in forms than is that of the continent (Fig. 254) : —
This rain-forest is composed chiefly of three trees, of which the myrtaceous Myrc-
eugenia fernandeziana takes the foremost place — a tree attaining 25 meters in height
and 80 centimeters in diameter, with a dense umbrella-shaped crown, and moderately
large parchment-like leaves. The second place according to number of individuals,
but the first according to dimensions, is taken by Zanthoxylum Mayu, a tree attain-
ing 30 meters in height, with pinnate leathery leaves. These two species are always
accompanied by the endemic variety of Drimys Winteri known as confertifolia,
which, though only attaining a height of ten meters, possesses an extremely thick
massive stem, and has its laurel-like leaves crowded together at the tips of its axes,
as is the case in most endemic plants of the archipelago. Accompanying these
dominant trees are others as subordinate species, such as Psychotria pyriflora
(Fig. 255), Boehmeria excelsa, Sophora tetraptera, which likewise attain a height of
only ten meters, and, like the preceding trees, have rather sapless foliage. Striking
