CHAPTER V
DISTRICTS OF THE WARM TEMPERATE BELTS
WITH MOIST WINTERS
i. Sclerophyllous Woodland in General. Distribution and oecological character
of the formations. Structure of the leaves. Subsidiary components. Conditions of
existence. 2. Sclerophyllous Woodland in Mediterranean Countries. Maquis.
Physiognomy. Systematic composition. Characteristic plants. 3. Sclerophyllous
Woodland in Cape Colony. Low bushes. Rarity of trees. Prevalence of small linear
leaves. 4. Sclerophyllous Woodland in South and West Australia. Oecological
resemblance to other sclerophyllous woodlands. Prevalence of narrow elliptical leaves.
The South-West Australian 'scrub,' according to Schomburgk and according to Behr.
5. Sclerophyllous Woodland in California. Oecological and systematic character.
Shrubs. High forest of Sequoia sempervirens. The ' chaparrals.' 6. Sclerophyllous
Woodland in Chili. Oecology and systematic composition.
i. SCLEROPHYLLOUS WOODLAND IN GENERAL.
Whilst the districts referred to in the previous chapter resemble the
tropics climatically in the coincidence of the rainy season with high
temperatures, and accordingly possess a vegetation similar to that of the
tropics, this likeness entirely ceases in countries where the precipitations
coincide with low temperatures and at the same time the hot season is
quite rainless or nearly so. Here the totally different aspect of the
vegetation corresponds to the sharp difference in climatic conditions, and
finds no analogy within the tropics. The mild temperate districts with winter-
rain and prolonged summer-drought are the home of evergreen xerophilous
woody plants, which, owing to the stiffness of their thick, leathery leaves,
may be termed sclerophyllous woody plants.
The climatic districts belonging to this group are the littoral countries
of the Mediterranean Sea, the south-west extremity of Africa, South-West
Australia and the greater part of South Australia, Central Chili, and the
greater part of the coastland of California. In all these widely separated
countries the vegetation bears essentially the same stamp, in spite of deep-
seated difference in the composition of the flora. It is dominated by sclero-
phyllous plants, and always, though to a subordinate extent, by tuberous
and bulbous plants. Outside the above-mentioned districts, formations of
