•iI2
ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. II
dimensions (Lencadendron argenteum, Protea macrophylla, P. coccinea). Their
epidermis always possesses very thick outer walls.
On comparing sclerophyllous plants with other xerophilous woody plants,
what strikes one most, besides the evergreen nature of the foliage, is the
absence of one of the commonest protective means against threatened
desiccation, namely water-reservoirs ; these are not found in the leaves, nor
yet in the roots. We have already noted that a protective tomentum on
the upper surface of the leaf is usually absent, and that pinnate leaves, so
common m other xerophilous communities, are rare. Thorns, which are
also common in other xerophilous plants, are almost unknown among sclero-
phyllous plants, and vegetative buds in
most cases are devoid of any protective
envelope of scales.
If sclerophyllous plants completely
dominate vegetation in the districts they
characterize, they are nevertheless al-
ways accompanied byplants of a different
structure and mode of life. Among
these, bulbous and tuberous plants take
a prominent place. These are always
to be found in close proximity to the
sclerophyllous bush-wood, and usually in
very great diversity of form. The wealth
of Mediterranean countries, Cape Co-
lony, Chili, and California in such plants
is generally known, and the same fact
is stated of South and South-West Aus-
tralia. Nowhere else in other districts
Fig. 273. Sclerophyllous flora of Cape do they form so essential a component
Colony. Grubbia stricta, A. DC. (Grubbia-
of the vegetation. Mingled with the
ceae). Natural size. After Hieronymus, in
Engler und Prantl, Die natiirlichen Pflanzen- sclerophyllous plants one may see 1SO-
familien. , , ,, , 1
lated aphyllous woody plants, some
succulent plants, such as Cactaceae in America, Mesembryanthemum at the
Cape ; but these plants are by no means rich in forms, and are always
emigrants from other districts, particularly from deserts. Woody lianes
are rare, and very thin-stemmed ; on the other hand, herbaceous climbers
are often common. Except in the case of the above-mentioned succulent
plants, there is nothing characteristic about the herbs. Mosses and lichens
are either very rare upon, or completely absent from, the bark of trees.
The more highly organized epiphytes never occur, even although they
appear in neighbouring districts with similar or lower temperatures, as in
Cape Colony and Chili.
