5i4
ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. II
over, these two most important climatic factors of plant-life usually exhibit
a very unfavourable separation in time from one another. The winter
temperatures are on many days high enough to render the work of assimi-
lation possible — as that requires but little heat 1 — and at this season, during
which the soil contains the most moisture, the flow, as well as the further
elaboration, of the raw sap is certainly far more active than during the
summer drought. During the summer the temperature, indeed, is con-
tinuously favourable for assimilation, but the drought opposes it, as it causes
contraction or closing of the
stomata. It would be highly
interesting to investigate, of
course only in their natural
habitats, the rate of assimila-
tion of sclerophyllous plants
during the different seasons,
and during weather as varied
as possible, and to determine
whether the low temperature
of winter or the drought of
summer is the more hostile
to it. It is highly probable
that the annual assimilation
of sclerophyllous plants is
not greater than that of
periodically green woody
plants, as these possess not
only a more delicate foliage
with less protected stomata,
but also allow the leaves to
function under much more
favourable conditions.
The great use of the ever-
green foliage in a climate
with winter rain and summer drought is rendered clear by the above
remarks.
Of the other peculiarities of sclerophyllous plants, the great frequency
of scaleless buds is readily comprehensible, for the buds require no pro-
tection against drought during winter, seeing that they are formed in
summer and may therefore dispense with a hard envelope ; the needful
protection is afforded by hairs, coatings of resin, and the like.
J\ Anfj*»<"'
Fig. 275. Sclerophyllous flora of California. Quercus
chrysolepis. Natural size. After Sargent.
1 Regarding assimilation during winter by sclerophyllous plants in Chili, see Meigen, II,
p. 101.
