Cii.V] WARM TEMPERATE MOIST WINTER DISTRICTS 517
holm oak (Ouercus Ilex, Linn., Figs. 281, 282) and the Aleppo pine (Pinus
halepensis, Mill.) predominated ; at present these trees are rarely found
grouped as low thin forest. Vegetation is more luxuriant on silicious soil ;
the shrubs then become more closely set and taller, and together form the
so-called 'Midguts' (Fig. 280), which attains a rich typical development,
especially in Corsica. The maquis may also frequently be considered as the
underwood forming the sole
remains of original forests,
in which all but a few trees
have been felled. On silicious
soil in the south of France
these trees are chiefly Pinus
maritima and Ouercus Suber,
whilst the holm oak and the
Aleppo pine are only subor-
dinate there. The stone-pine
(Pinus Pinea, Fig. 283), which
appears in most landscapes
of Mediterranean countries,
forms thin woods here and
there on sandy soil, without
however being an essential
and general constituent of
the vegetation, like the
other above-mentioned pines,
which are less beautifully
shaped. The well-known
cypress (Fig. 284) is still less
frequent in natural woods.
The maquis frequently pos-
sesses a very uniform compo-
sition over large areas ; thus
in Spain, for miles it is
formed chiefly of species of Cistus (Fig. 285) ; in the Levant, not infre-
quently mainly of Pistacia Lentiscus (Fig. 286). But even in these cases
the prevailing types are mingled with others, and a varied mixture of
forms usually results.
The systematic composition of sclerophyllous woodland exhibits many
distinctions according to the locality, the altitude above sea-level, the
physical and chemical nature of the soil ; but its oecological character is
everywhere preserved. Low and thin in the garigues, taller and more
interlaced in the maquis, the shrubs and trees always exhibit vertical, rio-id
dull green leaves. One might imagine them all to be members of one
Fig. 2S2. Sclerophyllous flora of the Mediterranean.
Quercus Ilex. Two-thirds natural size.
