CH. V] WARM TEMPERATE MOIST WINTER DISTRICTS 519
appear arbitrary. The olive-tree (Olea europaea, Linn., Fig. 268), however,
will always be mentioned. Here and there in the maquis of the Levant and
of the Mediterranean islands it still grows as a wild shrub, while as a culti-
vated tree it dominates all the cultivated land of the district. It is a typical
representative of the sclerophyllous type, with its massive trunk, which
ramifies near the ground, its gnarled branches, its deeply-fissured thick
bark, but especially its small, narrow, stiff leaves, dull green, and provided
with a scanty coating of hairs on their upper faces, but silvery below
owing to their scaly hairs.
Ouercus Ilex, Linn. (Figs.
281, 282), resembles the olive
closely in habit. In the Medi-
terranean countries, this species
with some others, such as O.
coccifera (Fig. 288) and Q.
Suber, represents the sclero-
phyllous type of the genus
Ouercus, whilst other common
species of the district, such as
O. lusitanica, remain green in
summer. The sclerophyllous
oaks have small stiff leaves,
which in O. Ilex are usually
entire, but in other species are
sharply toothed.
Some shrubs and small trees
from Mediterranean coun-
tries, which have been intro-
duced to general cultivation
in Europe, exhibit no less
markedly the sclerophyllous
stamp. Two of the best known of these, the oleander and the bay-
tree, can scarcely be considered as typical representatives of the maquis.
Nerium Oleander grows on the banks and on little islets of the stony beds of
streams containing but little water ; and the bay-tree (Laurus nobilis),
whose area extends over Western France, is a rare feature in the maquis,
and, like the oleander, has larger leaves than the ordinary plants which
compose the vegetation of the maquis. Quite typical and common
shrubs of the maquis are the myrtle (Myrtus communis) with its small
stiff leaves, and aromatic Labiatae, such as the rosemary (Rosmarinus
officinalis), lavender (Lavandula latifolia), and thyme (Thymus vulgaris),
whereas the sage (Salvia officinalis), having broad, softer leaves, with felted
hairs, again deviates from the type.
Fig. 2S4. Cupressussempervirens, the cypress. Above:
a branch of Olea europaea. Ravenna, Lake Como. From
a photograph by Fr. Sonnecken.
