526
ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. II
According to Bolus 1 , the south-western corner of Africa is covered with
evergreen ' low-growing scattered shrubs of a dark or bluish green hue.'
Its constituents usually have very small leaves, and are of a greyish-green
or dull colour, so that they produce a very sombre
effect at a distance. Near the coast, however, the
bushes are taller, at most 4-8 feet high. Trees,
Proteaceae in particular, are confined to the moist
slopes and ravines of Table Mountain (Fig. 270).
In comparison with the leaves of the Mediterranean
woodland, very small leaves are even commoner here
(Figs. 291, 292), although relatively large leaves, for
instance in Leucadendron argenteum (Figs. 290, 294),
are not wanting in somewhat damper places. Here,
the climate appears also to have influenced the flowers,
which are usually very small but closely packed
together, and often exhibit a reduction in the corolla
in favour of the stamens. Annuals appear to be
wanting. These slight oecological differences between
the woodland in Cape Colony and in the Mediter-
ranean countries are connected with the still greater
dryness of Cape Colony, but are unimportant when
compared with the very many points of agree-
ment. The agreement also extends to the subordi-
PlG. 292. heterophyllous ... . , . r
flora of Cape Colony. Clif- nate associated plants, among which, in the first
fortia lhcifoha (Rosaceae). p ] ace are bulbous and tuberous ones. But thorny,
Natural size. l J
aphyllous, and succulent plants, also woody plants
with pinnate leaves (Fig. 293), are only weakly developed ; on the other
hand, they play an essential part in the neighbouring districts, in which
the rainfall, though no greater or possibly even less, has a different distri-
bution in time.
According to Scott-Elliot 2 : 'Collections of plants made wholly on the lower
slopes of, say, Table Mountain, the Lion's Head, the Devil's Peak, the Muizenberg,
and the Houwhoek Mountains near Caledon . . . show remarkable resemblance in
the habit and appearance of the plants. They are all shrubby perennials. There is
apparently not a single undoubtedly indigenous annual in the south-western flora.
The leaves are small, hard, and frequently rolled at the edge, while the flowers are
also small, though numerous and crowded. This form of plant is exemplified in all
sorts of orders, e.g. by numerous species of Heliophila amongst Cruciferae ; by
many species of Polygala and of Muraltia, of Polycarpon, of Hermannia and
Mahernia, of Pelargonium, by the whole section Diosmeae of Rutaceae, by Phylica
and Noltea in Rhamnaceae ; in Leguminosae by Amphithalea, Borbonia, Ramia,
1 Bolus, op. cit., p. 2!
2 Scott-Elliot, op. cit., p. 243.
