Ch. V] WARM TEMPERATE MOIST WINTER DISTRICTS 533
Acrotriche (Proteaceae), Calythrix (Myrtaccae, Fig. 295, 8) cover the ground, and are
overtopped by higher growing ones, such as Hakea (Proteaceae, Fig. 298, 4), Logania
(Loganiaceae), Atyxia (Apocynaceae), Myoporum (Myoporaceae, Fig. 295, 6), Steno-
chilus (Myoporaceae), Euphrasia (Scrophulariaceae), Thomasia (Sterculiaceae),
Bursaria (Pittosporaceae), Pomaderris (Rhamnaceae), Haloragis (Halorageaceae),
Melaleuca (Myrtaceae, Fig. 295, 1), Leptospermum (Myrtaceae, Fig. 298, 5), Eutaxia
(Papilionaceae), Acacia (Mimosaceae, Fig. 296), Isopogon (Proteaceae), Correa
(Rutaceae), Rhagodia (Chenopodiaceae), &c, forming sometimes impenetrable
thickets ; in other localities the scrub consists only of Eucalyptus dumosa, A. Cunn.,
sometimes formed by other bushy Eucalypts, viz. E. uncinata, Turcz. ; E. bicolor,
A. Cunn. ; and E. incrassata, Labil. ; growing only six to eight feet high and
extending hundreds of miles.
'The most predominant colour of the leaves of the scrub is a glaucous "green, in-
terspersed here and there with whitish leaves of the Rhagodia and other shrubs
having reddish-brown leaves. Most of the leaves are ovate, entire, coriaceous, and
pungent ; shrubs with pinnated leaves are seldom met with.
' The monotonous and dismal look of an extensive scrub is depressing, especially
when viewed from an eminence. The equal height of the vegetation, the dull glau-
cous colour of the foliage, look in the distance like a rolling sea reaching the horizon
—at least the first sight of the Murray Scrub, extending hundreds of miles, produced
this impression on my mind. Every one avoids the scrub as much as possible —
many have lost their way there and perished for want of water.
'All the scrubs in the different districts produce the same common impression, but
the plants comprising them are not the same genera and species, locality and soil
affecting the character of the flora.
'Shrubs of one kind or another are found in flower in the scrub throughout the
year. Most kinds produce their flowers in September and October ; the rainy
season therefore alters the physiognomy of the scrub very little ; but it calls into
life numerous terrestrial orchids, of which a good many kinds inhabit the scrub,
viz. :— Erochilus, Caladenia, Diuris, Prassophyllum, Dipodium, Microtis, Cyrto-
stylis, &c. These appear with some perennial and annual plants, viz. : — Helichrysum,
Drosera, Helipterum, Scaevola, Brunonia, Thysanothus, Euphrasia, Goodenia,
Hypoxis, Senecio, Sec, and annual grasses ; but their duration is short, as with the
setting in of the dry season they disappear as rapidly as they appeared.'
'Heath-like or vertically placed leaves,' says Behr 1 , 'are closely packed on the
rounded shrubs with a moss-like interlacing growth, or scantily clothe the naked-
ness of the long shoots that project from the forbidding scraggy shrubs. The pre-
vailing tint of the foliage is a dull bluish green ; 3'et in this respect Nature lays down
no inflexible law; Rhagodia bears white foliage, another shrub brownish red;
strangest of all, for most unnatural among such surroundings, is the vivid fresh
green of Cassia and Santalum. Pinnate leaves, or other forms of compound leaves,
are rare; I remember only a single example in a species of Cassia. There is
otherwise the greatest possible variety in the rigid foliage, in shape from ovate to
mere setiform, in arrangement all possible stages from the densest crowding
together of leaves to the bareness of leafless twigs. Indeed plants belonging to very
1 Behr, op. cit., p. 548.
