CHAPTER VI
WOODLAND AND GRASSLAND CLIMATES IN THE
COLD TEMPERATE BELTS
I. General Considerations. 2. Forest and Prairie in the United States of
North America. Four districts based on climate and vegetation. Mean rainfall in
the four districts. The winds. 3. Climate and Vegetation in Russia. Climate of
the steppes. Dissimilarity of the winds in Northern and Southern Russia. Climatic
conditions of the forests in Central and Northern Russia. 4. The Hungarian Plain.
Hunfalvy on the Hungarian steppe-climate. 5. Cold Temperate Eastern Asia. Condi-
tions in regard to precipitations. Distribution of forest and grassland. Summary.
i. GENERAL CONSIDERATIONS.
As the distance from the tropics increases, the formations, so far as they
depend on climate, become less diversified. Xerophilous woodland is
wanting, at any rate as a climatic formation ; the distinction between high-
forest and low-forest can hardly be traced ; shrub formations, which find in
heath their most widely spread type, depend in the first place on edaphic
conditions. Grassland usually assumes the form of steppe, more rarely of
meadow, but never of savannah.
In a great part of the temperate zones where the winter is cold, the
covering of vegetation has been so altered by the constructive or destructive
activity of man and of domesticated animals, that natural formations are
extremely rare ; this is true, for instance, of Central Europe, of the greater
part of China and Japan, of a considerable part of Russia and North
America. Somewhat less altered is the original vegetation in Eastern and
Southern Russia, in temperate Siberia, and in many — particularly the
western — territories of North America. In North America the disturbances
are also of comparatively recent origin, and the natural character of the
vegetation may be reconstituted in our minds from descriptions of eye-
witnesses. Russia and North America are those countries of the northern
cold temperate belt in which the climatic conditions of woodland, grassland,
and desert can at present be most readily apprehended. The land area
