COLD TEMPERATE WOODLAND AND GRASSLAND 543
is so small in the cold temperate belt of the southern hemisphere that
it need hardly be considered.
2. FOREST AND PRAIRIE IN THE UNITED STATES
OF NORTH AMERICA.
The United States of North America, when regarded from the point of
view of their atmospheric precipitations, show a distinction into four chief
districts proceeding from east to west 1 : —
District without a dry season. In this, the Atlantic district, rain falls
abundantly at all seasons of the year, with a perceptible maximum in
summer. Near the coast the precipitation is about 1,000 mm. annually; in
the south and bordering on the Gulf of Mexico, 1,200 mm. ; to the west pre-
cipitation descends to 800 or 900 mm. The western limit of the district is
approximately fixed by the Mississippi.
District with dry winters and moist early summers. This district lies to
the west of the Mississippi and extends up to the base of the Rocky Moun-
tains. The precipitation is less than in the Atlantic district and attains
from 500 to 600 mm. ; it decreases from east towards the west.
District with a very scanty rainfall. This district forms the plateau
situated between the Rocky Mountains and the Sierra Nevada, and has
nearly everywhere a rainfall of 300 mm. or less, the precipitations either
occurring throughout the year or failing almost completely during the height
of summer.
District with winter-rain. This lies on the Pacific coast to the west of
the Sierra Nevada (Washington, Oregon, California). In the north precipi-
tation is very abundant and the summer also is moist, although much less
so than winter. To the south the precipitation is less (about 500 mm.) and
summer is rainless ; the most southern part of California receives only
a very scanty precipitation (about 250 mm.).
The character of the vegetation of all four districts can be accurately anti-
cipated from the quantity and especially from the seasonal distribution of
the precipitations : —
The Atlantic district, with precipitations not only frequent but also taking
place during winter, has a true forest climate, and is, in fact, covered with
forests which decrease in height and in luxuriance towards the north-west,
just as the rainfall diminishes. In the southern part with mild winters, the
forests are hygrophilous (subtropical rain-forest) ; in the north, corresponding
to the cold winters, they are tropophilous.
1 According to Greely meteorologists distinguish thirteen types. For the questions
before us such a detailed classification is unnecessary.
