Chap. I]
WATER
i5
Such manifold interchangeability of habitats among xerophytes, as is
found in Java, has not yet been established for other areas, possibly only
because the physiological — as opposed to the physical — aspect of xerophily
is quite new as a subject of study, and observers have bestowed very little
attention on such phenomena. But Battandier had already reported that
certain Algerian plants are confined to the alpine summits of the Atlas
mountains and to the sea-shore ; further, that certain ubiquitous plants, in
both these apparently so dissimilar habitats develop exactly similar ano-
malous forms ; and, finally,
that the cultivation of alpine
and littoral plants in or-
dinary lowland soil induces
similar modifications of
structure.
The xerophilous character
of the vegetation of peat-
moors has hitherto been con-
sidered an incomprehensible
anomaly, and yet the rich
supply of humous acids in
the soil furnishes a condition
for its occurrence as com-
prehensible as it is necessary.
The presence of Scots pine
and heather on both dry
sand and on wet peat is
thus not more remarkable
than is that of Ledum pa-
lustre, Vaccinium uliginosum,
and other peat-plants on the
cold dry soil in the polar
zones. All these habitats
so very dissimilar in physical
character are dry to plants, and therefore suited for the well-being of
xerophytes.
In spite of all the resemblances in the protective means employed, in
spite of the frequent interchange of the precise methods of protection,
in short, in spite of all similarity in the vegetation of various physiologically
dry districts and habitats, careful examination shows that certain forms of
xerophily are favoured by definite external conditions. The connexion
between structure and environment is, as a rule, easily intelligible in such
cases. Thus succulent plants occur chiefly in hot districts, and there alone
attain large dimensions, both in dry and in damp air (plants of deserts,
Fig. 17. Xerophilous structure. Vegetation of wet saline
soil of the Javanese jnangrove-sivamps. Rhizophora
mucronata. Transverse section of leaf with aqueous tissue.
Magnified 70.
