Ch.VI] COLD TEMPERATE WOODLAND AND GRASSLAND 353
AVERAGE NUMBER OF RAINY DAYS IN THE LOWLAND OF THE
HUNGARIAN PLAIN.
(After Hunfalvy, op. cit., p. 293.)
Jan.
Feb.
Mar.
April.
May.
June.
July.
Aug.
Sept.
Oct.
Nov.
Dec.
Year.
8-5
7-9
8-8
9-1
10-3
9-1
8.5
7-3
6-3
6-6
8-9
9-2 100-5
Concerning the general climatic characters the following is gleaned from
the same work: —
The course of temperature, as is usually the case in an inland
country remote from oceanic influence, is very fluctuating, the changes
being rapid and extreme. Winter is usually severe, but very variable.
Up to the middle of May warm days usually alternate with windy
raw days ; night frosts last till April and May. On the ivhole, dry
hot summers are commoner than moist cool ones. In these hot summers,
the thermometer in the shade frequently remains for weeks at 22-30° C.
The sweltering heat commences even at about 7-8 a.m. and lasts till
6-7 p.m. The air is extraordinarily dry ; not a drop of dew refreshes the
vegetation.
Almost every morning a wind springs up, which bloivs steadily till the
evening. Days and weeks pass in this way. The leaves of trees and
shrubs wither in consequence of the great heat, drought, and evaporation,
the crops turn yellow prematurely, grass completely dries up in the
meadows. Winds blow frequently in the lowland, and are often per-
sistent and strong. In summer they increase the drought, for they favour
evaporation. This is specially true for the easterly, north-easterly, and
south-easterly winds.
This description, in which the most important passages are italicized,
represents a true grassland climate, and at the same time a climate
unfavourable to tree-growth. As in South Russia and North America, it is
characterized as a grassland climate by the dry winter ; moist early summer,
moderate rainfall, frequent showers, as well as by the mild temperature
during the vegetative season of the grasses. Moreover, the moderate
rainfall, the dry cold -winter, the dry hot late summer, the strong winds,
and the prevalent great dryness of the air, are unfavourable to tree-
growth.
5. COLD TEMPERATE EASTERN ASIA.
North temperate Japan has an abundant supply of rain falling at all
seasons of the year, but especially in autumn and early winter. The
climate is a forest climate, and the character of its vegetation corresponds.
Saghalin agrees with North Japan, although its maximum rainfall is
decidedly autumnal. North-East China and the basin of the Amur have
