CHAPTER VII
FOREST FORMATIONS OF THE COLD TEMPERATE
BELTS
i. General Oecology of the Summer-Forest, i. Introduction. Tropophilous character
of the forest in the cold temperate belts. Coniferous and broad-leaved forests, ii. The
Broad-Leaved Summer-Forest. Comparison with the rain-forest. Luxuriant development
near sheets of water. Effects of light. Underwood. Lianes. Absence or rarity of higher
epiphytes. Optimum illumination of the shade-flora. Demands on light of Hepatica triloba
and other shade-plants. Structure of the trees. The arrangement of their branches ; their
foliage. Comparison of the trees with those of xerophilous tropical woodland. Structure
of the shrubs, iii. The Coniferous Forest. Illumination. Xerophilous structure of the
trees. Tropophilous mode of life. Evergreen broad-leaved trees. 2. Special
Illustrations, i. The Forests of North America. Differentiation of the North American
forest according to Sargent. The subpolar or northern forest belt. The Atlantic and Pacific
northern forest. The Pacific forests are coniferous. The Pacific Coast forest. Its northern
part. Forest of the Sierra Nevada. Sequoia gigantea. The Pacific Interior forest.
Stunted character. Atlantic forests. Province of Pinus Strobus. Its oecology and flora.
The broad-leaved summer-forest of the Mississippi and of the Atlantic plain. Forests of
North Carolina according to W. W. Ashe. ii. The Forests of Europe. Virgin forest in
Bohemia according to Goeppert. Forest on the eastern shore of the Black Sea. iii.
The Forests of Siberia and Eastern Asia. Comparison of the Siberian forest with that of
subpolar North America. Physiognomy of the Siberian forest according to Middendorff.
Eastern Asiatic forests in Kamchatka ; in Saghalin ; on the Amur. The summer-forest
of Japan according to Rein and Mayr. iv. The Forests of Tierra del Fuego. Their
character according to Dusen.
i. GENERAL OECOLOGY OF THE SUMMER-FOREST.
i. INTRODUCTION.
In contrast to the forests of the warm temperate belts the forests
of the cold temperate belts have in the cold of winter a factor essen-
tially determining their oecology. Cold periods, like rainless ones, are
seasons during which water is not available to the vegetation ; whereas
the warm periods of the cold temperate belts, as opposed to those
of the greater part of the warm temperate ones, are characterized by
great humidity, especially when we take into consideration the
moderate temperature and the supply of water collected in the ground
during winter. The alternation of physiologically dry and moist
periods corresponds to an alternating xerophilous and hygrophilous
