558 ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. II
Japan, rare in the broad-leaved summer-forest ; they are also small and
exhibit but little variety. Epiphytic vegetation is even more poorly repre-
sented. The bark of the trees bears only a few small mosses and lichens,
and in the deepest shade at most a delicate film of soredia.
In the thinner woods or near the edge of the forest, wherever light gains
admission more readily, the gaps are better filled. This is especially the
case near the water-side, where the vivifying influence of light reinforces
that of great humidity. Here, the shrubby underwood forms thickets ;
ivy, the poison-sumach, and other woody though usually thin-stemmed
lianes climb the boles of the trees ; others again are intertwined with the
shrubs ; and the bark of the trees is covered with cushions of moss. Yet
even with the aid of great humidity and of the heat of summer, which
favours rapidity of growth, the luxuriance of rain-forest is not attained,
although the summer-forest of Japan, favoured in both these respects,
approaches it more closely. The brevity of the warm period, the cold of
winter with its desiccating influence, impose narrower limits on the develop-
ment of vegetation than in the case of the constantly moist rain-forest.
The significance of the amount of light that falls upon a forest is shown
by the increase of shade-vegetation when the trees of the canopy are more
widely separated, or by a comparison between the scanty shade-flora
during summer and the relatively luxuriant flora during spring, or between
that of the constantly dark coniferous forest and that of the periodically
lighted broad-leaved forest. The much greater wealth of vegetation in
the shade in the warm zones is attributable, in part, directly to the greater
intensity of tropical light, but, in part, also to the fact, established by
Wiesner, that the demand for light by plants increases as the supply
of heat diminishes, so that one and the same species thrives in deep shade
in a warm climate, but only in bright situations in a temperate climate.
Wiesner has determined the extremely important lowest intensity of light for
several deciduous broad-leaved trees at Vienna, from the middle of May until the
middle of July, and gives the following figures, among others, for closed woods : —
L (min.). I (max.).
Fagus sylvatica • • to .... 0-02 1
Aesculus Hippocastanum st • • • • 0-023
Quercus pedunculata o\ .... 0-050
Fraxinus excelsior ^l 0-224
Hence, in the summer-forest, as well as in the rain-forest, vegetation
remains under the spell of illumination. Yet the struggle for light in the
summer-forest does not generally consist, as it does in the rain-forest, in
an internecine contest for possession between strong organisms, in which
even tall trees are vanquished by small plants, but is one solely of adapta-
tions to the unfavourable conditions of light. Only in specially favoured
