Chap. VII] COLD TEMPERATE FOREST FORMATIONS 563
Coniferous Trees.
Larix europaca ....... 3-4
Abies excelsa ....... 5
Pinus Laricio ........ 5
Taxus baccata ....... 8
On the contrary, the size of the leaves of woody plants varies between
much narrower limits than in trees of the tropical rain-forest, and remains
generally far below the dimensions that are usual in the latter. Leaves
like those of Platanus and Aesculus are not ordinary features in cold-winter
districts ; in tropical rain-forest they would about correspond to the average
size and are far exceeded by the leaves of many species. The shapes of
leaves of the summer-green forest are very varied ; but pinnate forms are
not common, yet occur in, for instance, Fraxinus, Sorbus, Robinia, Juglans,
Negundo. Hairs are usually weakly developed or absent, except on quite
young leaves, where they occur more frequently as a protection against
transpiration, as in Fagus.
Plank-buttresses at the base of tree-trunks are here and there indicated
on wet soil, as in the pyramidal poplar ; they never attain any considerable
development. I know of cauliflory in no cold-winter district ; ramiflory
only in one shrub, Cercis canadensis.
Whilst in comparison between summer-green trees of cold-winter districts
and trees of the tropical rain-forest, the distinctions strike the eye more than
the resemblances, yet the resemblances predominate in comparison with the
deciduous trees of xerophilous tropical vegetation. In such xerophilous
tropical trees the trunks are shorter than they are in the trees of the rain-
forest, are comparatively thicker, have no plank-buttresses, are covered by
a thick scaly bark, and provided with distinct annual rings in their wood ;
the branching is richer, the buds are enclosed in hard scales, the leaves are
smaller, cauliflory is very rare. In short, such a xerophilous tropical tree
possesses — apart from extreme cases already described — a climatic impress
similar to that of an oak or an apple-tree ; the sole difference is the xero-
philous structure of the leaf. The comparison thus shows that it is not the
conditions of temperature, but those of humidity, which have induced these
resemblances and distinctions that are independent of systematic affinity.
The bark of our trees and the scales of their buds provide protection less
against the cold as such, than against transpiration, at a season when a supply
of moisture from the soil is impossible on account of the temperature being
too low.
The shrubs and young trees forming the underwood of summer-forest
and the herbs on the ground have the typical impress of shade-plants. In
the horizontal branching of young elms and beeches growing in the forest,
Wiesner sees the expression of an effort to obtain the completest possible
002
