Chap. I]
WATER
17
regions with wet winters and dry summers, like that
of the Mediterranean. Finally, according to certain
authors, the dense cushion-like growth of certain plants
(Figs. 19, 20), which has not yet been mentioned, may
also be included among the protective measures against
drought ; amongst phanerogams this is confined to
plants of regions that are cold, or at any rate cool
and periodically cloudy, and is chiefly prevalent in
those of high mountains. A hard substratum appears
to favour it, but is not essential, for cushion-like vege-
tation is also found on meadows and moorlands.
Such differences often give a varied physiognomy
to xerophilous formations ; they are however only
quantitative and not qualitative, for every natural com-
munity of xerophytes includes the most diverse types
intermingled in various proportions. For instance, in
one locality succulent plants predominate, in another
thorny shrubs with pinnate leaves, in still another
sclerophyllous or very hairy plants ; other forms are
however always present as auxiliary species.
iii. HYGROPHYTES.
Wiesner ] cultivated in absolutely saturated air a
number of plants of more or less decided xerophilous
character, especially some which naturally possess basal
rosettes of leaves, and, leaving out of consideration
those plants that became diseased, he obtained es-
sential deviations from the normal structure. The
leaves attained extraordinary dimensions, the rosettes
by lengthening their internodes became converted into
long shoots (Fig. 21)- Under similar conditions in
Lothelier's experiments, slightly foliaged or non-foliaged
thorny xerophytes were converted into absolutely or
nearly thornless plants with abundant foliage (Fig. 22).
Xerophytes when cultivated in very moist air, provided
they can endure it, acquire a quite abnormal structure
which app roadies that of hydrophytes.
Typical hygrophytes have xveakly developed roots,
elongated axes, and large thin leaf-blades. They are
hardly ever thorny, as the parts of their vegetative
shoots always assume the form of foliaged shoots and
of leaves ; they may, however, be prickly, as prickles
1 Wiesner, III.
SCH1MPER C
Fig. 21.
Taraxacum of-
ficinale. .Left
hand : leaf, in
nature about 6o
cm. long, in ab-
solutely satu-
rated air. Right
hand : leaf, in
nature 1 2-1 5cm.
long, from a mo-
derately damp
locality. After
Wiesner.
