57° ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. II
Carriere, Pinus ponderosa, Dougl., Abies concolor, Lindl. et Gord., and
Abies bracteata, Nutt., Libocedrus decurrens, Torr., and, in the south,
Sequoia gigantea, Lindl. et Gord. (Figs. 309, 310), the mammoth tree, which
appears principally in isolated groups, and still further south forms a more
or less continuous strip for several miles. In contrast with the more
northern forest on the western slopes of the Cascade Mountains, the
high-forest of the Sierra is almost free of underwood. The cause of this
difference is not yet explained. In valleys the forest is thin and formed
of oaks.
Representing an eastern branch of the Pacific forest, and separated from
the western branch by the almost treeless desert of the Great Basin, there
extends along the Rocky Mountains and its southern outliers the narrow
Pacific Interior forest (C on Map 4), with which Sargent also associates
the forest on the eastern slopes of the Sierra Nevada. Owing to scanty
rainfall, this forest, for the most part, is stunted, thinly stocked, and without
underwood. It occurs only on steep slopes and in canons (Figs. 311, 312),
whilst the valleys, except in the immediate vicinity of the water-courses,
are treeless or nearly so. In the north, this forest consists very largely
of the dwarf Pinus Murrayana, Balf. ; to the south of 52 N. the forest
increases somewhat in luxuriance and in number of species, and includes
Pseudotsuga Douglasii, Pinus ponderosa, and Larix occidentalis. In the
most southerly part of the Rocky Mountains, on the summits of the
Colorado Mountains, at altitudes of 2,400-3,000 meters, more abundant atmo-
spheric precipitations induce a luxuriant forest growth (Picea Engelmanni).
The lower ranges bear forests of Pinus ponderosa and Picea nigra, whilst in
the river-valleys poplars, alders, and maples or Abies concolor predominate.
The outlying hills, on the other hand, assume a more or less desert- like
character, with scattered and stunted juniper and a small oak. The most
southerly part of the Pacific Interior forest extends from the tops of the
mountains of New Mexico to Texas and to West and North-West Arizona,
and in places attains considerable luxuriance.
The Atlantic forest (Pig. 313), which covers a far greater area than does
the Pacific forest, extends where it is broadest over twenty degrees of
longitude, and is chiefly coniferous in its northern part and along the coast,
but in the interior it is a summer-green broad-leaved forest. The area
covered by the Atlantic forest everywhere enjoys a rich rainfall, and the
vegetation is correspondingly luxuriant.
Sargent distinguishes three great provinces in the Atlantic forest, a
northern province (2 on Map 4) of Pinus Strobus, Linn., a South Coast
province (3 on Map 4) of Pinus palustris, Mill. (P. australis, Michx.), and
a zues tern province (4 on Map 4) of broad-leaved forest.
The West Indian and Mexican tropical forest (D on Map 4) send each
of them an offshoot of very slight extent towards Florida (5 on Map 4)
