THE FACTORS
[Part I
do not involve any diminution of the transpiring surface. Their internal
structure, like their external form, is specially adapted for promoting the
exit of water.
Protective means against the loss of water are not, however, as a rule
completely wanting. The Hymenophylleae of moist evergreen forests
dry up very quickly in dry air, and are therefore always dependent on an
atmosphere that is constantly very damp. This is also true, if to a less
degree, of other herbaceous plants of similar habitats. Hygrophilous
trees, on the contrary, are at times exposed to a less humid atmosphere,
and are partially exposed to direct
insolation, by which, even in a satu-
rated atmosphere, their transpiration
is materially accelerated. Hence
many hygrophilous woody plants,
especially in the tropics 1 , possess
distinct though weakly developed
protective devices against the loss
of water, apparently similar to those
which are strongly developed in xe-
rophytes, such as an epidermis rich
in water or a thin aqueous tissue,
and in leaves exposed to sunlight
a well-developed cuticle.
By such protective means the pali-
sade-cells are guarded against ex-
cessive loss of water during the hot
midday hours, the stomata are also
closed during the same period. The
urgent necessity for such a temporary
decrease in the transpiration is proved
by the drooping of the foliage of
many tropical trees and shrubs under
the midday sun. At other hours
of the day, or when the sky is clouded, transpiration through the stomata
is quite unrestricted 2 , and under weaker illumination far exceeds that
through the cuticle. Danger to hygrophytes from too much transpiration,
if it exists at all, is limited to a few hours in the day. and is often non-
existent for weeks ; it may, at the worst, cause the foliage to wilt, but
cannot cause death from desiccation. Their chief danger is that of
stagnation of the transpiration-current, and the existence of this danger
is primarily apparent in the structure of hygrophytes.
Fig. 22. Ulex europaeus. a In ordinary
air. b In saturated air. After Lothelier.
1 Haberlandt, I.
Ibid.
