Ch.VIII] COLD TEMPERATE GRASSLAND FORMATIONS 593
interrupted by bare spaces ; yet there are, especially in North America,
steppes that are very thickly overgrown and yet decidedly xerophilous.
The grasses usually grow in tufts, but there are also creeping species,
and they it is which usually produce completely covered steppe — for
example Buchloe dactyloides in North America (Fig. 336). During winter
the superficial part of a typical steppe, in opposition to that of a meadow,
is for the most part dried up. Wherever mid-summer is rainless, desiccation
may set in even then.
2. THE VEGETATION IN MEADOW DISTRICTS AND
STEPPE DISTRICTS.
i. MEADOW.
Natural meadows apparently occupy less extensive areas than do natural
steppes, and they chiefly appear in transitional climatic districts whose vegeta-
tion is park- like in character, that is to say, where grassland and patches of
forest alternate with one another. This is due to the fact that the moister
meadow climate is more favourable to growth of trees than is a true steppe
climate.
Possibly the natural plant-covering of Europe exhibited such a park-like
physiognomy. The European climate is neither a pronounced woodland
climate nor grassland climate, but equally favourable to both formations ;
and the occurrence of numerous plants that are absent from the flora of the
forest is in favour of the former existence of natural meadow. Such natural
meadows, however, exist no longer, even where they occupy an original
meadow-area. Mowing, grazing, manuring, and other operations have
certainly fundamentally modified the original appearance of a European
meadow. Hence no attempt will be made to give a detailed description
of a Central European meadow l .
Luxuriant virgin meadows occur in the parkland tracts by the Amur,
in Kamchatka (Figs. 237, 325), and on the island of Saghalin (Figs. 323,
326). In them many herbs, especially species of Umbelliferae and Spiraea,
exhibit the greatest luxuriance and are often taller than a man. Apparently,
as in transitional climatic districts in general, slight differences in the soil
determine the alternation of the two forms of vegetation : a more porous
soil, or one that is moister owing to lateral infiltration into lower levels,
will produce woods ; one less permeable and only superficially moist, patches
of grassland. No definite information on this question is, however, available.
The most extensive natural meadow district is probably that of the
eastern prairie in North America, yet it has often been stated 2 that it was
1 Excellent descriptions are given by Drude, op. cit., p. 339 ; by Stebler and Schroter,
op. cit. ; and by Weber, op. cit.
2 See Mayr, op. cit., p. 231.
SCHIMPER Q Q
