Chap. I]
WATER
19
The greatest possible expansion of the transpiring surface is the most
general characteristic of hygrophytes. How important this may be has been
shown by comparative experiments made
by Noll, on a large-leaved hygrophilous
plant, Aristolochia Sipho 1 , and on a sphe-
roidal Echinocactus. His observations
showedthat,forequal weights, the Echino-
cactus possessed a surface 300 times
smaller than the Aristolochia. Were
it merely a question of the size of surface
exposed, the ratio of the transpiration of
the two plants would be as 1 : 300. The
Cactaceae, however, besides exposing
a small surface, have other xerophilous
characteristics, in their weakly developed
intercellular system, their thick cuticle,
and so forth ; the Aristolochia, on the
other hand, is not only large-leaved, but
is also provided with other aids to trans-
piration, such as large intercellular sys-
tem, thin cuticle, and the like; so that
the ratio of their transpiration is, not
1 : 300, but 1 : 6,oco. This latter ratio
gives a clearer idea of the efficiency of
the means for regulating transpiration
than any actual description, and it is not
at all an extreme case, for although
Cactaceae are typical xerophytes, yet
Aristolochia is by no means a decided hygrophyte.
In many hygrophytes, especially those of damp
tropical forests, adaptation in the construction of the
thin leaf-surfaces is evident. Where the plant is
liable to heavy rainfall the leaves have often the
long ' dripping point,' by means of which water is
soon drained off 2 (Fig. 23). The leaves of plants
living in the deep moist shade of the forest, as well
as those growing beside brooks where they may
be sprayed by the water, frequently have a velvety
surface on which the water spreads out by capillarity
into an extremely thin layer that evaporates rapidly
(Fig. 24) 3 .
1 This is tropophilous and therefore hygrophilous during the growing season.
2 Jungner, op. cit., and especially Stahl, II. 3 Stahl, IV
C 2
Fig. 23. Hygrophilous structure. Ficus
religiosa. Leaf with dripping point. After
Stahl.
Fig. 24. Hygrophilous
structure. Begonia im-
perialis. Conical papillae
on the upper surface of the
leaf. Slightly magnified.
After Stahl.
