Ch.VIII] COLD TEMPERATE GRASSLAND FORMATIONS 6oi
be surpassed at all in this respect, it is only by Artemisia austriaca, Xanthium
spinosum, and Amaranthus retroflexus, of which the first two cover whole tracts
in dense pure masses, the first giving preference rather to the high-steppe, the
second rather to the lower parts of the slopes. Owing to the social growth and
the relatively not inconsiderable size of the individual plants, they render them-
selves more noticeable than other plants— such, for instance, as Atriplex laciniata,
Polygonum aviculare, Portulaca oleracea, and Eragrostis poaeoides — are able to
do in spite of the enormous number of their individuals. . . .
'The following plants also influence the character of the autumnal vegetation
on account of their great abun-
dance : Taraxacum serotinum,
Achillea Millefolium, Polycne-
mum arvense, Artemisia campes-
tris and A. scoparia, as well as
A. Absinthium, Chenopodium
opulifolium, Atriplex nitens, A.
rosea, and Kochia prostrata,
which are sufficiently numerous
but not present everywhere. . . .
The species of Euphorbia (E.
nicaeensis), however, again play
an important part, because,
though but rarely adorned with
flowers, they contrast agreeably
by means of their relatively
bright green tints with the uni-
form grey of the dominant plants.
In September and October this
grey tint is mingled with the
fresh green of the sprouting
grass.'
The transition in South
Russia from the forest district
to the steppe district is de-
scribed as follows by Reh-
mann 1 : —
Fig. 337. North American prairie-flora. Munroa
squarrosa, Torr. Natural size. From a specimen in the
Berlin Herbarium.
' The natural boundary of the
steppe district is indicated by oak-
woods ; the course of this boundary line is, however, not everywhere uniform, and
the forests penetrate most deeply into the steppe district along the beds of
the Dniester and the Bug. . . .
' Along the whole of this line the forests occur in small scattered blocks ; and,
almost everywhere that I have seen, their existence is associated with valleys and
deeper ravines ; they cover the inner banks of these depressions, and do not usually
1 Rehmann, op. cit., p. 47.
