6o2 ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. II
go at all beyond them. The large tracts of flat ground that lie between these river
valleys and ravines are entirely free from forest, and, being covered with the
characteristic steppe-vegetation, are most intimately associated with the true steppe
district. But further north again, where the forests begin to extend into the plain,
their areas are very small, and their proportion to the total area of the country
insignificant, the land being still always mainly dominated by herbaceous formations.
All forests along the entire boundary line are, almost without exception, pure oak-
forest : they are throughout formed of Quercus sessiliflora, sometimes Q. peduncu-
lata and Q. pubescens appear in small numbers ; very rarely does one find, and
then only on the border of the oak-forests, a mixture of Acer campestre, Ulmus
effusa, U. campestris, and Carpinus Betulus. In such oak-forest the indigenous shrubs
are very numerous and form a dense underwood, in which occasionally the pretty
Rosa altaica occurs. In the absence of this underwood, the soil is covered by
a great number of herbaceous plants forming a very luxuriant and diversified
meadow-like vegetation which is almost everywhere mown.' The accompanying
list of the chief constituents of these forest-meadows enumerates a number of
species which usually also occur in the forests of Central Europe and in grassy
clearings in the forest, especially on a calcareous subsoil.
' Besides the oak, Carpinus Betulus is prominent on the border of the forest
district, so that oak-woods and hornbeam-woods exclusively form the forest
formations on the border of the steppe districts and forest districts. The hornbeam
sometimes appears isolated on the margin of the oak-forests, but otherwise it forms
independent woods, which have no connexion whatever with the oak-forests and
are distinguished from them most strikingly by their physiognomy. Whilst in
an oak-forest the trees are very scattered but are individual^ fine, the hornbeam-
woods are formed of very slender, thin and weakly individuals, which however
occur in enormous numbers and form an impenetrable dark thicket. In such
cases the hornbeam permits the intrusion of no other trees or shrubs, and the
rich underwood of the oak-forest is completely absent. Shrubs cannot thrive
here on account of the want of light, and the same cause also appears to exclude
all herbaceous plants.'
SELECT LITERATURE.
Drude, O. Deutschlands Pflanzengeographie. Bd. I, p. 339. 1896.
Gruner, L. Zur Charakteristik der Boden- und Vegetationsverhaltnisse des Steppen-
gebiets und der Dniepr- und Konka-Niederung unterhalb Alexandrowsk.
Bullet, de la Societe imper. des natural, de Moscou. Annee 1872. No. 1.
Hackel, E. Ueber einige Eigenthiimlichkeiten der Graser trockener Klimate.
Verhandl. der zoolog.-botan. Gesellsch. Wien. 1890.
Hitchcock, A. S. Oecological Plant Geography of Kansas. Transactions of the
Academy of Science of St. Louis. Vol. VIII. 1898.
Krasnov, A. I. Geobotanical Researches in the Kalmuk Steppe. Bulletin of the
Russian Geographical Society. Vol. XXII. 1886. (In Russian.) Extended
reference by F. von Herder in Engler's Jahrbucher. Bd. X. 1889. Litteratur-
bericht, p. 53.
