DESERTS 605
The amount of rainfall naturally differs in these various desert districts,
but it never exceeds 300 mm., and usually remains considerably lower.
According to Woeikof s computations, the point on the earth that is poorest
in rain, as far as meteorological observations are available, is Copiapo in
Chile, with an annual average of 10 mm. According to the same author,
the following places have less than 100 mm. : Fort Mohave in Arizona,
60 mm. ; San Juan in Argentina, 70 mm. ; Serena in Chile, 40 mm. ;
Suez, 60 mm. ; Nukus on the Amu-Daria, 70 mm. ; Petro-Alexandrovsk,
60 mm. ; Leh in Kashmir, 70 mm. ; Aden, 50 mm. ; the island of Ascension,
80 mm. The distribution of the scanty rainfall throughout the year also
differs. In the Sahara the atmospheric precipitations are irregular, though
taking place chiefly during spring. On the Amu-Daria and in North Chile
the maximum is in autumn, in Australia in summer. But owing to the
smallness of the rainfall such maxima and minima have no practical signifi-
cance ; the vegetative periods depend on the heat, which increases the
injurious effects of drought and therefore brings plant-life to a state of rest
at the time of its maximum. The atmospheric dryness acts in the same
manner as the heat, and is usually much greater in deserts than in woodland
and grassland districts ; its maximum is attained in summer.
The oecology of most desert-floras is at present but little known, so that
the following descriptions are quite fragmentary in character.
1. THE DESERTS OF THE EASTERN HEMISPHERE.
i. THE DESERT DISTRICT OF NORTH AFRICA AND SOUTH-WEST
ASIA.
Between §£ and 20 N., 18 W., and 70 E., a district, chiefly formed of
high plateaux, and extending like a belt right across North Africa, Arabia,
South Persia and Baluchistan, to the country beyond the river Indus, has
an annual rainfall of less than 200 mm., so that its vegetation throughout
exhibits a desert character. As regards its thermal conditions, this, the
greatest of all desert districts, belongs to the belt of mild winters ; only at
its most northerly points do slight frosts and transitory falls of snow occur
in winter. The summer temperatures are among the highest in the world
and coincide with the season of greatest drought ; over a large part of this
desert district the temperature in July is 36 C. and upwards.
The following tables give more detailed data of an extreme western point
(Cape Juby). two central points (Ghardaia and Cairo), and an extreme
eastern point (Multan) of the North African and South-West Asiatic
desert district : —
