6io
ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. II
richly peopled are the wadis traversing typical stony deserts of this type,
and in particular the immediate banks of the water- courses, which are
usually dry.
The sandy desert (Areg, Fig. 339) has a less scanty vegetation, except on
the dunes (Fig. 345), which are often entirely devoid of plants.
The sharpest contrast to the veritable bare desert tracts, provided only
with scanty, low, pale green plants, is afforded by
the deepest valleys and depressions containing
springs, the oases (Fig. 340). Usually so sharply
bounded by the desert that their contour can be
defined by a line, they nourish a luxuriant vege-
tation of trees and herbs, which however are all
artificially grown, for the oases are entirely under
cultivation.
The distribution of desert plants appears to be
dependent far more on subterranean water, retained
in the depths of the soil, than on the direct
moistening of the soil by rain. Yet an ephemeral
rain-flora seems to be present in all deserts. In
spite of their short duration and scantiness, the
spring rains evoke numerous annual plants, which
for the most part completely disappear immediately
after the rainy season, so that the previously green
surface then appears once more just as free of
vegetation as before the rain. The spring rains are
also important to perennial plants, often however
rather by reducing transpiration than by directly
supplying moisture to the deeply-seated roots.
Many species bear leaves and flowers only during
this period. Others however blossom during the
dry, cool winter. We have consequently to dis-
tinguish between two oecological groups of desert
plants, the one the existence of which depends
directly upon rain, and the other in which it depends
upon the presence of subterranean ivater.
P la tits of the desert dependent directly upon
rain 1 . These are partly annuals, which germinate
at the commencement of the rain, ripen their seed
when it terminates, and die forthwith ; partly, though in smaller numbers,
plants, the underground portion of which is perennial, but which after the
rain disappear from the surface just like annuals.
My own observations on the flora of the Sahara were confined to the
1 See particularly Volkens, II.
Fig. 341. Flora of theSahara.
Genista (Retama) Raetam,
Forsk. Natural size. After
Taubert in Engler und
Prantl, Die nattirlichen
Pflanzenfamilien.
