Chap. IX]
DESERTS
611
immediate sandy neighbourhood of Port Said, and to the most northerly
part of the Algerian Sahara, near Biskra (Eig. 345), where I happened to be
for a short time during the spring rain, which appeared scarcely to moisten
the ground. The firm, usually loamy, soil of the desert tract between the
oases looked like a very meagrely planted and very peculiar garden, in
which the individual plants were separated from one another by bare patches,
one meter and more wide. Most of them were small, roundish, dense shrubs,
which, when observed superficially, resembled one another so much that it
came as a surprise to find, on looking at them closely, different kinds of
leaves or flowers (Leguminosae, Zygophyllaceae) ; there was, however, no
want of horizontally-spreading under-shrubs pressed close to the ground, nor
of rough, besom-like forms ; the
latter usually belonging to an
Artemisia, which was frequently
accompanied by a juicy, tall,
purple Orobanche. The sandy
soil of dry water-courses was
populated by tamarisks covered
with salt. These were the repre-
sentatives of the flora associated
with subterranean water. The
rain-flora consisted of much
smaller and more delicate plants ;
in particular the rosettes of
Scorzonera alexandrina, a nar-
row-leaved inconspicuous herb
with large violet fragrant stel-
late capitula on short peduncles,
showed themselves everywhere,
also Odontospermum pygmaeum
(Fig. 342) and the well-known
Anastatica hierochuntica ; the
latter, however, only in the dry
beds of the water-courses.
Upon rain-herbs of this type in the desert one cannot directly observe
any trace of the unfavourable nature of the climate. This is revealed in-
deed in their very rapid development and the short duration of their life,
but neither in the delicate herbaceous stems and leaves, nor in their thin
roots, which, in contrast with those of plants associated with subterranean
water, penetrate the soil no deeper than the rain, nor in their flowers,
which are frequently of considerable size, is the climatic influence visible.
Volkens has investigated a great number of these desert annuals, and
in most cases could discover no xerophilous characteristics in such plants
R r 2
Fig. 342. Flora of the Sahara. Odontospermum
pygmaeum, O. Hofif. I. with closed capitula (dry) ;
2. an open capitulum (moist). Natural size.
