6l2
ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. II
as Malcomia aegyptica, Spr., Matthiola livida, DC, Roemeria dodecandra,
Stapf., various Papilionaceae (for instance species of Astragalus), many
inconspicuous Compositae, some Boraginaceae, and grasses.
Other likewise annual plants owe their power of temporarily enduring the
dry season to the supplies of water that they have collected during the
rainy season, and the exhaustion of which marks the termination of their
existence. Among these, according to Volkens, are included the few
Aizoaceae of the Sahara (Mesembryanthemum crystallinum, Linn., Fig. 349,
Aizoon canariense, Linn.), also
several Paronychieae, species
of Reseda, and Cruciferae.
The rain-perennials, that is
to say perennials which have
an existence above ground only
during the rainy season, are
partly bulbous Monocotyledones
— for instance, in the Egyp-
tian Sahara, Pancratium Sicken-
bergeri, Aschs. et Schweinf.,
Urginea undulata, Steinh., Al-
lium Crameri, Aschs. et Boiss. —
and partly, but to a less degree,
Dicotyledones, such as species
of Erodium and Heliotropium.
Plants of tJic desert dependent
upon subterranean water. This
second category of desert plants
exhibits its dependence on sub-
terranean water nearly uni-
versally by the immense length
of its root-system, which the
depth of level of the subterra-
nean water renders vitally
necessary. Only a small mi-
nority of these plants are
annuals, for instance Monsonia
nivea, according to Volkens ; most of them have lignified axes and markedly
xerophilous structure. Yet among them there is a large and even
herbaceous plant, clearly hygrophilous in the structure of its epigeous parts
and transpiring freely, and it shows better than any other desert plant
the importance of subterranean water to the vegetation of the desert. It is
Citrullus Colocynthis, a cucurbitaceous plant resembling our cultivated
pumpkin, and its long juicy, relatively thickly foliaged, and large-leaved
Fig. 343. Flora of the Sahara. Zilla myagroides, Forsk.
Natural size. After Prantl in Engler ivnd Prantl, Die
naturlichen Pflanzenfamilien.
