Chap. I]
WATER
2 3
Many terrestrial plants growing accidentally in water exhibit only slight
deviations from their normal structure, for this is too firmly fixed by
heredity to yield, in the first generation, to new influences. Other terrestrial
plants are more plastic and at once undergo a series of modifications owing
to which their structure approaches that of true aquatic plants. Thus
H. Schenck found on the banks of a pond, which had overflowed, some
submerged specimens of Cardaminepratensis which exhibited the following
deviations from the normal terrestrial form. The cauline leaves, normally
sessile, had acquired long petioles, their segments were narrower, their
mesophyll was thinner and devoid of palisade-cells, their cortex was thicker
because their vascular bundles had been displaced towards the centre
(Fig. 29), the sclerenchymatous elements richly developed in the terrestrial
form were absent, the outer wall of the epidermis had become very thin,
the vessels were greatly reduced, and the intercellular spaces enlarged.
These modifications are to a great extent very similar to those induced
by water-vapour. In very damp
air we find lengthening of the
petiole, diminution in the thick-
ness of the cell-walls, reduction in
the development of vessels and
palisade-cells, and an increase in
the air-containing spaces. Only
two characteristics, which are
not very prominent, depend on
the liquid condition of the water :
these are centripetal displacement
of the vascular bundles and the
narrowing of the leaf-segments. This represents the first step towards the
transformation of a terrestrial plant into an aquatic plant.
The Cardamine does not appear able to hold its own as an aquatic
plant. Its plasticity is not sufficient for the purpose. Other so-called
amphibious plants, the best known of which is Polygonum amphibium,
thrive equally well as aquatic or as terrestrial plants, because, owing to
a high degree of plasticity, they become appropriately modified for either
medium.
Aquatic pJianerogams and pteridophytcs, possibly also aquatic mosses, have
originated from plastic terrestrial plants that possessed the faculty of estab-
lishing themselves as aquatic plants. Excepting the few species that have
remained amphibious, their persistence is eventually due to this faculty,
for, crowded out by the competition of terrestrial plants, they have taken
refuge in the water, where they have gradually become appropriately
modified and have lost partially, or completely, the ability to thrive
normally upon land.
Fig. 29. Cardamine pratensis. Stem in trans-
verse section. A Terrestrial form. B Aquatic
form. 111 pith; rp cortical parenchyma ; mr ring
of mechanical tissue. Slightly magnified. After
H. Schenck.
