Chap. IX]
DESERTS
619
most remarkable in East Africa. One of them, Pyrenacantha malvifolia (Olacaceae),
during the dry season reveals only the stem swollen out in monstrous fashion,
and not until the rain approaches do there spring forth from beneath the upper
convex surface shoots, hardly as thick as one's thumb, which are beset with mallow-
like leaves, and clamber up through the surrounding bushes. The other, Adenia
globosa (Passifloraceae), permanently bears at the top of its tuberous stem cascades of
arching green, switch-like shoots, which bend down to the ground or support them-
selves against and climb up trees and shrubs, and which, instead of bearing leaves,
are armed with finely pointed, conical, hard thorns. . . .'
The oecological character of the vegetation of the Sahara continues the
same eastwards (Fig. 350), as far as North-West India, the flora also
exhibiting great constancy. According to Brandis x , there are forests along
the Indus within reach of the abundant subterranean water, but beyond
Fig. 355. Trans-Caspian desert, near Kara-bugaz. Calcareous sand with Salsolaceae,
Calligonum sp. From a photograph by Andrussovv.
this river only a meagre growth of shrubs prevails, consisting of species
that also cn-ow in the desert districts of Africa.
ii. THE DESERT DISTRICTS OF WEST AND CENTRAL ASIA.
The great Central Asiatic desert is a north-eastern branch of the desert
of North Africa and Arabia, and extends from the shores of the Caspian
Sea, about 50 E.. up to Eastern China, at about 120 E.
It is split into a western portion, extending from the Caspian Sea to the
Tian Shan, and an eastern portion, extending from these mountains to the
Chinese Great Khingan Mountains. The western or Trans-Caspian desert
is a plain ; the eastern one of Gobi, a plateau. Both desert tracts belong
to the cold temperate belt and possess an extreme climate.
Przhevalsky - makes the following statement regarding the climate of
the Gobi desert : —
1 Brandis, op. cit., p. 414. 2 Przhevalksy, II, pp. 247, 248.
