Chap. IX]
DESERTS
629
shrubs (Terminalia prunioides), and a liane, Clematis orientalis, subsp.
brachiata.
The character of the vegetation from the sea-shore up to the borders of
the semi-desert steppe and woodland of Kalahari undergoes a gradual
transformation in successive belts. This is partly due to the differences
in the physical nature and humidity of the soil, partly to differences in
climate. At a few miles' distance from the shore with its stunted halophytic
flora there is a broad belt of dunes and rocks, on which, at isolated spots,
nestle little colonies of a Gie-
seckia, of a Zygophyllum, or of
Aristida subacaulis ; they are of
short duration, for they are soon
buried under the sand that is
brought thither by the wind.
Only one plant there can with-
stand the force of the wind,
Ectadium virgatum, var. lati-
folium, a shrubby asclepiad
reaching a meter and a half high,
with rod- like branches and thick
leathery leaves. This does not
however grow in the sand, but
is rooted between rocks and
confined to their lee side.
Beyond the dunes the vege-
tation becomes somewhat richer
with the appearance of subterra-
nean water. The melkbosch, a
succulent species of Euphorbia
(Fig. 360), appears ; ' like hay-
cocks on an immense meadow,
these dark grey bushes, one and
a half to two and a half meters
in height, stand scattered over
the white sandy tract 1 .' The
Euphorbia is always accom-
panied by the large root-parasite Hydnora africana. Still further eastwards,
other shrubs gradually appear — stunted Byttneriaceae, Acanthaceae, and
Scrophulariaceae. They gradually become more numerous, and finally the
first tree, Aloe dichotoma (Fig. 361), is met with. The desert character
becomes less marked ; the low acacia-woodland (Fig. 364), the dry
Aristida-steppe of the Kalahari, commences.
1 Schinz, I.
Fig. 362. Flora of the South-west African desert.
Pelargonium undulatum, Soland. A tuberous plant
of the Cape-flora. One-half natural size. After
Andrews.
