6 3 2
ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. II
Fig. 368. Flora of the South-west African desert:
Griqualand. Harpagophytum pinnatifidum,
Engl., a pedalineous South African tuberous
plant. After Engler.
organs that are produced subsequent to
the cotyledons ; as the plant apparently
may attain an age of 100 years, these
leaves would seem to surpass by far all
other similar plant-members in duration
of life ; but this longevity is only mor-
phological, not physiological. The leaves
in fact are constantly renewed at their
bases by cell-formation and by growth,
whilst their apical parts gradually die and
dry up. Entire in young plants, the
margins of leaves of older plants are split
into shreds which lie in disorder on the
ground in many irregular folds. The
cone-like unisexual inflorescences spring
from pits in the axils of the leaves of the
monoecious plant.
Inasmuch as allies comparable with
Welwitschia are completely wanting in
other localities — the remaining gnetace-
ous genera assume entirely different
forms— it were fruitless to inquire into
the part played by climatic conditions
in inducing this remarkable differentia-
tion of form. At any rate its unique
structure and mode of development
appears to be completely in accord with
the desert environment.
The naras, Acanthosicyos horrida, is
systematically far less isolated, so that
the distinctions between its vegetative
organs and those of other Cucurbitaceae
may, to a great extent, be regarded as
adaptations to the climate. Whilst the
Welwitschia is confined to stony ground
between the sand-dunes, the shrubby
naras-bushes, up to one meter and
a half in height, clothe the summits
and slopes of the dunes. The copiously
branched, very rigid, green axes, which
are up to two centimeters in thickness,
bear strong opposite thorns in the axils
of rudimentary leaves. The roots, as in
most other desert plants, far exceed the
shoots, and are as thick as a man's arm,
and frequently more than fifteen meters
