Chap. I]
WATER
25
in members (rhizomes, roots) from which such canals are constantly absent
in terrestrial plants, is to be ascribed to the risk of want of oxygen owing
to the slow diffusion of gas in water ; these canals conduct the oxygen set
free by assimilation into tissues that are not green. Plants growing in
water that is in active movement and consequently richly supplied with air,
Fig. 31. Ranunculus fluitans. Transverse section of a segment ot a leaf, a Aquatic form;
magnified 90. b Terrestrial form ; magnified 60. After H. Schenck.
such as the Podostemaceae of tropical waterfalls and the larger surf-Algae,
are distinguished from terrestrial plants neither by a large development of
the surface, nor by the possession of special aerating devices. These
phenomena will be more thoroughly discussed further on l .
The other characteristics of aquatic plants may be considered as due to
the direct action of the water. Three of them are characteristic of liquid
water, as opposed to water-
vapour : first, the poverty in,
or absence of, stomata which
no longer function as in air
as organs for the interchange
of gases, since the whole
surface of an aquatic plant
absorbs and emits oxygen
and carbon dioxide and no
transpiration takes place ;
secondly, the central position
of the vascular bundles in
correspondence with the
necessity for resisting tensile strains ; finally, the mucilage, which protects
young plants against loss of substance by diffusion 2 . Other peculiarities
also occur in a less pronounced degree in damp air, namely, the reduction
of the root-system, of the vessels, and of the epidermal tissues, and this
reduction is correlated with the absence of transpiration in water and with
its diminution in damp air : to this may be added the slight development
Fig. 32. Callitriche stagnalis. Transverse section of
stem, a Terrestrial form, b Aquatic form. Magnified
67. After H. Schenck.
1 See Part I, Chap. IV, and Part III, Sect. V.
Schilling, op. cit.
