26 THE FACTORS [Part I
of the sclerotic elements, which however shows itself only in still water and
in still air.
The great plasticity which rendered possible the change of terrestrial
plants into aquatic plants has to some extent been inherited by descendants
from their ancestors. Most phanerogamous and fern-like aquatic plants can
still change into terrestrial forms approaching ordinary terrestrial plants in
structure (Figs. 30-32). Shorter axes, less subdivided leaves, palisade-
parenchyma, stomata, a well-developed cuticle, and centripetal disposition
of the chlorenchyma distinguish such terrestrial forms from aquatic forms.
But many of the characteristics acquired during a normal life in water have
become hereditary, such as the central position of the vascular bundles.
In fact the whole structure shows unmistakably that we have to deal with
somewhat modified aquatic plants. Such deserters from the water generally
remain weakly, and rarely or never blossom, as opposed to true amphibious
plants in which it is precisely the terrestrial form that displays sexual
activity more frequently than does the aquatic form.
Terrestrial plants that have been transformed into aquatic plants com-
prise only a small section of the whole aquatic flora. Algae, which we
have not yet considered, preponderate in aquatic vegetation, and are true
aquatic plants whose ancestral forms have always inhabited water. Even
the few existing terrestrial Algae are more dependent on liquid water than
are true terrestrial plants. These qualities render Algae less suitable than
more highly organized types for illustrating the difference between aquatic
and terrestrial plants.
3. WATER AND REPRODUCTION 1 .
A plentiful water-supply, as a rule, favours the development of the
vegetative organs ; scarcity of water brings about their reduction. On the
contrary, the production of sexual organs is usually impeded by a considerable
supply of moisture and favoured by drought.
This principle, which has long been established by practical operations,
has led to various horticultural artifices for the production of a rich supply
of blossom. Among these, for instance, is the art of root-pruning, in which
a trench is dug around the plant and the exposed portion of the root-
system cut off. In Ceylon, in order to cause the vine to blossom, the roots
are for a time partially laid bare. Cereus and other Cactaceae bear flowers
more plentifully if they have been shrivelled up for some time, than after
a period of uninterrupted turgescence. Many plants, for instance certain
species of Juncus, blossom only in a relatively dry soil.
Retarded passage of water through the vessels leads to similar results.
If a twig of a coffee-plant be broken so that it remains attached to a branch
1 Numerous references in Sorauer, Pflanzenkrankheiten, Vol. I, and Moebius, op. cit.
