Chap. I] WATER 27
only by a portion of its wood, it produces more flowers and eventually
more fruit than an uninjured twig 1 . Sugar-cane infected with the sereh-
disease having its vessels obstructed by mucilage always blossoms after
a short time.
Moebius has devoted some instructive experiments to the question of the
influence of moisture on the sexual processes. He cultivated in pots
specimens of Phalaris canadensis, Borago officinalis, and Andropogon
Ischaemum, in some cases watering them plentifully, and in others just
sufficiently to maintain life. In every case flowering was signally favoured
by drought. Plants that were kept moist did not as a rule produce a single
flower during the progress of the experiment.
To the same group of phenomena belongs Wiesner's observation, accord-
ing to which, in saturated air, Capsella Bursa-pastoris bore only a few
stunted blossoms and Taraxacum none at all, whereas the vegetative shoots
of both these plants developed with extraordinary luxuriance.
Finally, aquatic plants are highly instructive in this respect. Most
aquatic phanerogams remain flowerless if a considerable depth of water
hinders the emergence of fertile shoots. Thus, Alisma Plantago, Sagittaria,
Isnardia, Hippuris, Elatine Alsinastrum, Littorella, and others, remain
sterile whenever they are completely submerged. Many amphibious
species, such as Marsilea and Pilularia, develop their sporangia exclusively,
or nearly so, on their terrestrial forms. Subularia aquatica is cleistogamous
when submerged. On the other hand, vegetative multiplication takes
place in aquatic plants to a very great extent. Thus, in a few years' time,
our waters were overrun by the water-pest Elodea canadensis, developed by
means of its severed branches.
The Algae, forming by far the greatest class of water-plants, complete
their sexual and asexual reproduction under water. They are plants whose
ancestral forms were already aquatic plants, and they have always remained
withdrawn from the influence of drought. Yet in some of the more
amphibious Algae the favourable influence of drought in sexual reproduction
has been observed ; for instance, by Klebs in Vaucheria.
Those aquatic plants that have sprung from terrestrial forms, as is the
case with phanerogams and the higher cryptogams, have accommodated
themselves fully to water as regards their vegetative activity ; but, as
regards sexual reproduction, they have with few exceptions remained
subaerial plants, and this condition has induced wonderful adaptations,
such as the oft-described pollination of Vallisneria spiralis, which has ever
been a theme for poets. Only a few forms, for example Ceratophyllum,
Naias, Isoetes, a few mosses, and especially the marine phanerogams, pass
every stage of their development under water, for which reason special
adaptations in relation to the liquid environment are induced. Many
1 Ernst after Moebius, op. cit.
