Chap. I]
WATER
29
Gulf Stream from the West Indies. More recently the great importance of
marine currents in introducing plants to coasts and islands was proved
by investigations relating to the Indian and Pacific Oceans, and carried on
by Hemsley, Treub, Guppy, and myself. I wrote on the spot the following
description of the appearance of fruits and
seeds thrown up by the sea at Tjilatjap, in
South Java : —
1 The broad sandy shore is quite free from vegeta-
tion and nearly bare. Except for a few fruits recently
thrown up by the surf, together with shells and frag-
ments of pumice coining from the eruption of Krakatoa,
it is strewn only with the fruits of Spinifex squarrosus,
which are either bounding and rolling along urged by
the wind, or lie shortly clipped and half-buried in the
sand. Behind the shore, some low dunes stand up
sharply, and are overgrown with bluish Spinifex. At
the foot of these dunes lies the marine drift, carried
thither by the wind or by high tides, in the form of
long sharply-defined strips, resembling heaps of dung,
on which many seeds have germinated. The drift
consists chiefly of brown herbaceous or woody frag-
ments of various species, which, excepting the Spini-
fex, are difficult to identify, of pieces of pumice, coral,
shells, and finally of fruits and seeds, which, wherever
the drift-heaps are specially thick, have partly begun to germinate and cover them
with a fresh green verdure. Many of those fruits and seeds come from plants that
one might look for in vain in the neighbourhood ; some, at any rate, must have come
from the neighbouring island of Noesa Kambangan, but I cannot decide whence
the others have come.
' Many of the fruits look nearly as fresh as if they had just
fallen from the tree, for instance those of Barringtonia
speciosa. Others bear traces of a long journey, and have
been rubbed nearly out of all recognition ; their husks are
covered with Serpicula, or perforated like a sieve, or inhabited
by a colony of Cirripedes ; many, such as Carapa and Cocos,
have been hollowed out by animals.
' The most numerous of all these fruits are those of Heritiera
littoralis, and they are very conspicuous on account of their
great size. Abundant likewise are the large fruits of Cerbera
Odollam, quite stripped of their green husks and partially of
their parenchyma, and displaying the bared tough fibrous
coat surrounding the endocarp (here forming the floating tissue) which is almost
water-tight. Further arresting the attention are coconuts covered only with the
remains of their fibrous husks, and usually with one side perforated by a round hole
through which some unknown creature has eaten its fill of the seed that has almost
Fig. 34. Terminalia Catappa.
Drift-fruit. Natural size.
Fjg. 35- Calophyl-
lum Inophyllum. Stone
of fruit opened and
exhibiting the floating
tissue. Natural size.
