3°
THE FACTORS [Part I
entirely disappeared. The ribbed fruits of Nipa fruticans also abound ; the wrinkled
fruits of a Canarium or merely their remnants in the form of stones ; the large
mitre-shaped fruits of Barringtonia speciosa, as well as the oblong ones of B. excelsa
and the much smaller fruits of a third species not determined ; the boat-shaped
stones of Terminalia Catappa (Fig. 34), often much worn by friction and with the
thick husk infested with several kinds of creatures, especially Cirripedes ; the
irregularly angled seeds of Carapa obovata looking as if they were cut out of bottle-
cork, their husks being also perforated or gnawed ; the large angular seeds of
Pangium edule ; the globular stones of Calophyllum Inophyllum (Fig. 35) ; fruits
of various Pandani ; pods of Pongamia glabra and of Cynometra caulifolia ; the grey
irregularly rounded seeds of Caesalpinia Bonducella, the flat dark ones of a Dioclea,
the oblong ones of a species of Erythrina ; the seedlings of a Bruguiera. By care-
fully searching, a number of smaller fruits and seeds may be found, such as the
stones of Lumnitzera racemosa or L. coccinea, those of Scyphiphora, and the seeds
of Ipomoea Pes-caprae.
' In most cases, even when the fruits are much attrited, the seeds are quite sound,
and germination has apparently already commenced in some of them ; in this
respect there is a striking difference between different species which is probably
due to the various degrees of durability of the germinating power. Of coconut
palms, oaks or Canarium, there are no young plants, and the seedlings of Heritiera
are few in comparison with the vast number of its drifted fruits. Somewhat more
numerous are the seedlings of Barringtonia speciosa and another species of the
same genus, much more so than of Calophyllum Inophyllum, Cerbera Odollam,
and Carapa, and commonest of all are those of Ipomoea Pes-caprae and of various
Leguminosae. Seedlings of species, the ungerminated seeds of which I did not
discover, are very numerous, especially those of Ricinus communis and of several
other Euphorbiaceae.'
The littoral flora includes an extraordinarily high percentage of wide-
spread species, which are often cosmopolitan within their climatic zones,
and which owe their extensive area of distribution to marine currents,
as is proved by the presence of their seedlings on heaps of drift and by
investigations into the floating capacity and germinating power of drift-
seeds.
Investigations which I carried out as to the duration of the floating capacity of the
seeds of various Malayan littoral plants in water containing 3J % of salt had to be
interrupted before all the seeds had sunk. Seeds of Suriana maritima floated for
143 days, those of Hibiscus tiliaceus for 121 days. Other seeds or indehiscent
fruits floated from 10 to 70 days and then sank. Investigations by Guppy at
Buitenzorg, which had also to be stopped after 53 days, proved that the germinating
power of a considerable number of seeds was unimpaired after 40-53 days.
The dispersal of littoral plants by marine currents has been of consider-
able importance in establishing plants on islands and coasts not merely in
the past but at the present day, as Treub was able definitely to prove
