36
THE FACTORS
[Part I
follows 1 : ' Most kinds of moss growing here [Spitzbergen] are forms which are
more or less imperfect and injured by frost. In fact, they suffer greatly from the
rigour of the climate, for the whole plant usually assumes a dark tint ; the stems
become shorter, more richly branched and more caespitose than usual ; the leaves
also are modified in shape and direction of growth, and are more crowded, shorter,
less pointed, and more erect or adpressed and concave ; in addition they are
frequently white or transparent at the tip, because the chlorophyll is frozen; if in
the well-developed plant the midrib of the leaf be continued into a long hair-like
termination, here it may be that it seldom protrudes beyond the leaf-tip.' Similar
observations were made by Berggren 2 : 'As regards mosses, the characteristics are,
that the leaves are broader, very often concave, and have a tendency to form hood-
like tips. ... It is quite the exception to find mosses that are distributed from the
temperate zone up as far as Spitzbergen, which have not shorter and, in consequence,
relatively broad leaves. . . . Sometimes the margin of the
leaf is bent back as well, and its teeth disappear.'
Kjellman gives similar results for several plants of
a higher order, and refers to the cones of Picea excelsa
and the leaves of a few Ericaceae. There is, he says,
the same tendency as in mosses for the leaves to become
broader and shorter and to have any irregularity in their
margin removed.
Further research must decide how far these modifica-
tions depend directly on temperature.
Warming 3 observed in Juniperus communis (Fig. 36),
as well as in Lycopodium annotinum and L. Selago,
a tendency to bear leaves which are straighter and
adpressed and do not stand off from the stem as is
elsewhere the case. He considered this to be a method
of protection against transpiration. During winter many
species of pines resemble such ' cold forms,' as their
needles become raised and pressed against the stem.
I do not know of any such effects produced by drought \
Fig. 36. Juniperus com-
munis. A The form nana
of a cold climate. B The
common form. After Warm-
ing.
Every plant can live only at temperatures lying between two extreme
degrees, which are more or less far apart, and are termed respectively its
upper and lower zero points. The overstepping of either of these limits,
sooner or later, but at the latest within two or three days, results in the
death of the plant. The zero points vary for different species ; on the
other hand, individual plants of one species, provided they have grown in
nearly similar environments, have the same zero points. The absolute
extremes of plant-life are not identical with those of all its functions. Each
function has its own extremes, and at a certain degree of temperature its
optimum. There are, then, three cardinal points or degrees. Like the
1 Lindberg, op. cit. p. 536.
3 Warming, op. cit. p. 114 and Figs. 12-14.
2 Berggren, op. cit. p. 17.
1 Johovv, op. cit.
