Chap. II] HEAT 37
extremes, the optimum of each function is characteristic for each species,
and stands the higher the more the minimum corresponds to a higher
temperature.
The data indicated above form the only basis for research into the influence
of temperature on the distribution and mode of life of plant-species.
In opposition to the only scientific interpretation of the effects of temperature
which J. Sachs established by careful experiments, pliaenology 1 assumes much
simpler relations between heat and plant-life, as according to its teaching there
is a direct connexion between the development of the plant and the degrees of
the centigrade thermometer. Thus, in order to ascertain the amount of heat required
by an annual plant, the mean temperatures, or also the maximum temperatures,
from the sowing to the ripening of the seed on those days on which they exceed
zero centigrade, are added together. The sum of these temperatures for one and
the same species should be identical for any climate. This theory, as might
naturally be expected, is not confirmed by facts. The sum of the temperatures
of the individual physiological processes is calculated in a way similar to that of
the whole total. For perennial plants the temperatures are usually reckoned from
the first of January, and not from the date of germination.
Further discussion is hardly necessary to show that phaenology cannot lead to
exact results. Independently of the arbitrary nature of the choice of the degrees
of temperature and the date of commencing the calculation, this theory absolutely
ignores the facts that degrees of temperature are not physiologically equivalent — that
in some cases 35 or 30 are less favourable than 25° or 20°, but resemble in their
effects io° or 15 — that different organs and functions require very different amounts
of heat, that unfavourable temperatures cause subsequent inhibition, and that other
factors besides heat, especially humidity, co-operate and intervene. We need not,
then, be surprised if there is very little accord in phaenological observations, and
that the utmost one can do is to admit their having a certain importance for purely
descriptive geographical botany in the characterization of certain districts. No
importance, on the other hand, need be assigned to the theoretical views, nor to the
sum total of temperatures.
Physiological researches regarding the influence of temperature on the
vital processes of plants are unfortunately not yet numerous. Particularly
necessary is it to determine the extremes of temperature and the optima
of plants that are much more dependent on definite conditions of heat than
are most of the types already investigated. Information on these points,
for instance, does not exist in regard to the tropics, polar zones, or alpine
heights. Only on the basis of a great number of exact data can we hope
to gain a clearer insight into the connexion between temperature and
plant-life in different climates. The few observations relating to the
subject, and others which throughout require critical confirmation, are given
in the following pages.
1 See Hoffmann, op. cit.
