Chap. Ill]
LIGHT
63
Fig. 40. Schistotega osmundacea. Optical section of
a cell of the protonema in which the path of the rays
of light is traced. S" . . S' a ray, which is totally
reflected by the back wall of the cell t. P protoplasm.
c chlorophyll, v cell-sap. After F. Noll.
in the neighbourhood of the optical axis are so refracted as to be con-
centrated on to the chlorophyll-corpuscles, which lie just in front of the focus
of the lens, near the optical axis, and are consequently intensely illuminated.
Each individual chlorophyll-corpuscle, owing to its stronger refractive index,
acts again as a small lens and causes the rays, that meet it and are already
converging, to converge still
more in its interior, so that
the intensity of the illumina-
tion on its posterior surface
is still further increased. The
result of the whole process
of refraction is a vivid illu-
mination of the chlorophyll-
apparatus, which is concen-
trated in the optical axis
near the focus l . The lumin-
ous property is a physical
phenomena that necessarily
results, but is devoid of any
significance to the plant.
Similar contrivances for
illuminating the chlorophyll-containing parts occur, if not in such perfection,
in other plants living in shady places. The papillae which cover the velvety
surface of many tropical herbs dwelling in shaded habitats serve to con-
centrate the rays of light 2 . But also in
nearly smooth leaves, as Fig. 41 shows,
similar adaptations may be noticed.
This figure represents a transverse
section of the leaf of Argostemma
montanum, an herb often found grow-
ing in the densest shade of the moun-
tain forests of Java.
The bluish metallic lustre of many
plants that grow in deep shade remains
unexplained. It characterizes to a very
intense degree a few tropical species
of Selaginella and Trichomanes only,
but is pretty widely spread in a less striking manner, and may be observed
even at home in Sambucus nigra. This remarkable feature is never seen
in sunny spots, and must therefore in some manner be connected with the
feeble illumination of very shady places.
Fig. 41. Argostemma montanum. A
Javanese plant. Transverse section through
a leaf growing in the deepest shade. Mag-
nified 200.
1 Noll, op. cit., p. 482.
Stahl, IV.
