Chap. Ill]
LIGHT
65
quantity of chlorophyll ; even deep-lying parts normally devoid of chloro-
phyll, such as the inner cortex, the medullary rays, and the pith of woody
axes, were green. The axes were shorter than under ordinary conditions,
the leaves smaller and thicker, the flowers normally developed but more
intensely coloured. The internal structure (Fig. 42) strongly resembled
that of etiolated plants ; thus, the palisade-cells were developed either
feebly or scarcely at all, the fibres
and woody elements were quanti-
tatively reduced, all the cell-walls
were thinner, and the histological
structure generally was less differ-
entiated than in normally grown
plants. Even plants that were
discontinuously exposed to the
electric light showed abnormal
symptoms, but they bore a much
closer resemblance to plants
grown in ordinary daylight than
to those that were continuously
illuminated. The uninterrupted
duration of the illumination must
therefore be considered as the
essential cause of the deviations
from the normal structure.
Many of these deviations may
be explained as being due to well-
known effects of light ; this is
especially true in regard to the
shortening of the axes, the more
intense colour of flowers, perhaps
also the reduced size of the leaves.
Other phenomena have not yet
been explained, such as the more
plentiful production of chlorophyll and the simplification of the internal
structure. It must be shown by experiments carried on in the polar
zones whether or no any significance must be attached to the fact that
the electric light differs somewhat in quality from daylight. In favour
of the opinion that we have here to deal with effects that would also hold
true in the case of sunlight are the facts stated by Bonnier, that plants
grown in the extreme North possess a simpler histological differentiation
than the same species on high mountains of Central or Southern Europe,
and that individuals of these species when cultivated in continuous light
become similar to those grown in the polar zones.
SCH1MPER F
Fig. 42. Firms anstriaca. Transverse section
through a needle: a in ordinary (intermittent) light,
b in continuous electric light. Magn. After Bonnier.
