40 cm.
4-5
cm
22 „
o-8
»)
35 „
3-5
>>
IO „
6
5)
8 „
6
))
16 „
6
J)
70 THE FACTORS [Part I
statement shows how considerably growth is favoured by rarefaction of
the air : — •
GROWTH UNDER DIFFERENT CONDITIONS OF ATMOSPHERIC
PRESSURE (after Jaccard).
(R. represents growth in air at a pressure of 15 cm. ; O. at the normal atmospheric pressure.)
R. O.
1. Jerusalem artichoke. Tubers with shoots 1 cm. long,
in 8 days ......
2. Vicia Faba, 3-4 cm. high, in 8 days .
3. Oxalis crenata, tubers with two tall shoots .
4. Bellis perennis, plant 3-4 cm. high, in 15 days
5. Violet, plant 3 cm. high, in 15 days .
6. Onions, with shoots 3-3 i cm. high, in 10 days
When air less rarefied than the above is used, correspondingly less marked
results follow, but in spite of the greater importance of moderate atmo-
spheric rarefaction in relation to plant-life, this has secured scarcely any
attention from Wieler and Jaccard. A pressure of 35 cm. was employed
in one solitary experiment conducted by the latter observer on wheat-
seedlings. The plants experimented on attained in twenty-three days
a length of 20 cm., instead of 17! cm. at ordinary atmospheric pressure.
Air that is as rarefied as that used in most of Wielcr's and Jaccard's
experiments occurs in nature only at the highest summits of the Himalayas,
for example at an altitude of 8,839 meters on Gaurisankar, where, if we
assume that the temperature of the air at the sea-level is 25 , a pressure of
26 cm. prevails. An atmospheric pressure of 35 cm., under which the
above-mentioned experiment with the wheat-seedlings was carried out,
corresponds to an altitude of about 6,coo meters, at which, in Thibet,
a stately flowering plant, Saussurea tridactyla, has its normal habitat : this
plant is discussed and illustrated in the section of this book dealing with
alpine vegetation. There appears therefore to be no reason why some
vegetation, even if only cryptogamous, should not occur at still greater
altitudes. In any case however, judging from the information available,
there are very few plants occurring at altitudes such that the rarefaction of
the air would cause their growth to be appreciably more rapid than in the
low land. For a definite reply to the question we must await the results of
experiments on typical alpine plants.
The variations in the atmospheric pressure at different altitudes, even if
not directly, yet indirectly are of vast physiological importance, since
humidity, temperature, and light depend upon their magnitude. The
changes that these last-named factors undergo owing to a reduction in
atmospheric pressure are responsible for the influences exerted by the alpine
climate on vegetation, as will be described further on.
