74 THE FACTORS [Part I
they are branched like coral and surrounded by a thick snow-white coating
of aerenchyma.
Lateral roots that serve as pneumatophores of various patterns occur
in many other plants. They are not always submerged, but in the
majority of cases, at least periodically, project into the air, and accordingly
then possess characters other than those of submerged types. These
projecting respiratory roots are firm in structure, their aerating tissue is not
aerenchyma, but air-containing cork or cortex, and their upright position
is not passive, but active and due to negative geotropism. Such pneu-
matophores frequently attain considerable dimensions, like those of
Eugeissona tristis, a palm growing on wet soil, in the case of which they
attain a height of i \ m. and a diameter of 3-5 cm. ; or again the peculiar
' knees ' of the swamp cypress, Taxodium distichum (Fig. 48), which
resembling sugar-loaves in shape and size, project from the frequently
inundated southern swamps of North America ; or still again the variously
modified root-structures of shrubs and trees of the mangrove- swamps.
These will be described in a subsequent chapter when the tropical
formations are dealt with.
The oecological importance of aerating tissues and pneumatophores
has up to the present time been studied chiefly on morphological grounds,
and would therefore have remained hypothetical, had not G. Karsten and
Greshoff demonstrated it in one case, namely, in the pneumatophores of
Bruguiera eriopetala, at the Buitenzorg botanic garden. The pneumato-
phore on which they experimented exhibited ' an extremely great working-
power,' namely, a very strong excretion of carbon dioxide (once, over 45 c.c.
in an hour), which, as was shown by a comparison with the respiration of
the whole root-system of a young plant, would be quite inexplicable ' if we
wished to refer the result obtained only to the part of the root that was
exposed to daylight.' Only the assumption that the root, of which the
action was investigated, served as an excretory organ for a larger part of
the root-system, can explain the high figures obtained.
3. THE WIND.
The vegetation of windy regions exhibits many peculiarities, which may
be explained partly as due to direct action of the wind and partly as
adaptations to withstand it. These effects of air-currents are apparent
both in the vegetative and in the reproductive organs of plants.
1. Wind and Tree-growth.
Areas with an atmosphere almost constantly in active movement, such
as fiat coasts and islands which experience the first impact of the sea-
breezes, or elevated unsheltered mountain ridges, are usually characterized
