[v]
AUTHOR'S PREFACE
The delimitation of separate floral districts and their grouping
into more comprehensive combinations are nearly completed, and
the time is not far distant when all species of plants and their
geographical distribution will be well known. The objects of
geographical botany will not, however, then be attained, as is
often assumed, but a foundation merely will have been laid on
which science can construct a larger edifice. The essential aim
of geographical botany will then be an inquiry into the causes of
differences existing among the various floras.
Existing floras exhibit only one moment in the history of the
earth's vegetation. A transformation which is sometimes rapid,
sometimes slow, but always continuous, is wrought by the reciprocal
action of the innate variability of plants and of the variability of
the external factors. This change is due partly to the migrations
of plants, but chiefly to a transformation of the plants covering the
earth. Owing to unknown internal causes, the structure of plants
is subject to a process of metamorphosis, which taken as a whole
is slow, but apparently uninterrupted, and which gives rise to purely
morphological differentiation, i. e. to the acquisition of characters
bearing no apparent relation to the environment. Experience shows,
however, that this differentiation is profoundly and rapidly modified
by changes in the environment, every one of which immediately
involves a change in the organization of the plants. If the new
characters be useful, they are selected and perfected in the de-
scendants, and constitute the so-called ' adaptations ' in which the
external factors acting on the plants are reflected. Since these
last change with the geographical position, it is by the adaptations
that the causes of the differences in the facies of the vegetation at
different points on the earth are rendered more comprehensible, so
that their investigation is to be numbered among the chief duties
of geographical botany.
