I
CHAPTER V
THE SOIL
I. The Physical Properties of the Soil. Water capacity. Conveyance of water
by capillarity. Permeability of various kinds of soil. 2. The Chemical Properties of
Soils. Correlations of physical and chemical properties. Effects of solutions on the
absorption of water by plants. Poisonous nature of concentrated solutions. Protective
mechanism of plants against increasing concentration of saline solutions in the cells.
Various actions of salts on the structure of plants. 3. Sodium Chloride, i. Presence and
Function of Sodium Chloride in Plants. Influence of sodium chloride on the structure of
plants. Xerophilous character of halophytes. Influence of sodium chloride on the pro-
duction of proteids. Its influence on the structure of fresh-water Algae, ii. Halophytes.
Predilection for salt. Distribution of halophytes among the families of plants. Origin
of the halophilous mode of life. Inability to withstand competition inland. 4. Other
easily soluble Salts. Alum : the solfataras. Saltpetre. 5. Serpentine. Plants growing
on serpentine. 6. Calamine. Calamine-plants. 7. Calcium Carbonate, i. Action of
Calcium Carbonate on the Metabolism and Structure of Plants. Poisonous effects on
many plants. Power of accommodation to a calcareous soil. Experiments and observations
by Bonnier and others. Nature of the influence of lime on metabolism. Experimental
cultures by Fliche and Grandeau. ii. Character of the Flora on Calcareous Soil. Calci-
philous plants. Calciphobous or silicicolous plants. Instability of the relations of plants
towards lime. Thurmann's physical theory. Its refutation. Explanation of the difference
between calcicolous and silicicolous floras, and of their instability. Dissimilar relations
to lime of closely allied species. Parallel forms on soils rich and poor in lime. Nageli's
theory. 8. Humus, i. The Chemistry and Physics of Humus. Ash-constituents. Acid
humus and mild humus. Leaf-mould and peat. ii. The Mycorhiza. Endotrophic and
ectotrophicmycorhiza. Thismia Aseroe according to P. Groom. Saprophytes, m. Chemical
Differences in Humus and the resulting Flora. Dissimilar nature of the flora on different
kinds of humus. Great exclusiveness of certain species of plants. Plants growing on
animal humus. 9. Living Substrata : Parasites. Dependence on the chemical nature
of the substratum.
1. THE PHYSICAL PROPERTIES OF THE SOIL.
The physical properties of the soil 1 that are most important to plant-life
depend not so much on the formerly over-estimated forces of cohesion,
which offer a more or less considerable resistance to the growth of the
subterranean members of plants, as on the forces of adhesion and capillarity
which regulate the amount of water and air in the soil. At different spots
in one region with uniform rainfall the soil exhibits the numerous stages
between a dry and a wet condition, according to its water-capacity, its
1 See especially Ad. Mayer, op. cit.
G 2
