Chap. I] CHARACTERS OF THE ARCTIC CLIMATE
679
nation of day and night. On the authority of the same observer certain dis-
tinctions in the histological structure of identical species, according as the
latter have developed in a mountain climate in lower latitudes or in a lowland
climate in higher latitudes, are to be attributed to the long duration of the
light during the vegetative season ; and this refers in particular to the
greater thickness and smaller differentiation of the leaves. This question,
however, can be decided only in polar countries, by means of comparative
cultures with interrupted and continuous illumination respectively.
iv. XEROPHILOUS STRUCTURE OF THE VEGETATIVE ORGANS.
The character of the polar vegetation is decidedly xerophilous (Figs. 5,
6, 12). In this respect Warming was justified in comparing the vegetation
of Greenland with that of the Sahara ; yet it is not, as he assumed, an
instance of the same climatic cause, namely too little moisture, operating
in the two cases ; for the protective measures
against transpiration are not less marked on
constantly moist soil than on dry soil. Here
rather, as in so many other cases, different
external factors are physiologically equi-
valent, and have accordingly evoked similar
adaptations.
A short time after I had demonstrated the
connexion between xerophilous structure and
the coldness of the soil in reference to our
evergreen woody plants, and had suggested
that the xerophilous character of polar vegeta-
tion might depend on the same cause, Kihlman,
quite independently, after extensive observa-
tions in Russian Lapland, showed that, owing
to the permanent presence of ice in the ground,
polar plants do suffer from impeded water-supply, even at a slight depth
below the surface, and have consequently developed devices for reducing
transpiration just as in other physiologically dry stations.
Kihlman gives 1 the following summary of the xerophilous characteristics
of arctic vegetation : —
' The leaves are leathery, stiff and hard, strongly cuticularized, with a
reduced surface cataphyllary or needle-like (Lycopodium, Diapensia, Andro-
meda hypnoides), or they have a distinct tendency to succulence (Saxifraga
oppositifolia and other species of Saxifraga, Eutrema, Rhodiola). The
stomata also are concealed, either in more or less closed cavities (Andromeda
Fig. 404. Seedlings of Cochlearia
fenestrata. b had been deprived
of light for twelve hours daily.
a had been exposed to continu-
ous light. After Kjellman.
1 Kihlman, op. cit., p. 105.
