86 THE FACTORS [Part I
roots no longer absorb water. A soil that is rich in soluble salts even
when thoroughly soaked with water is therefore to a plant a completely
dry soil *.
Nevertheless, by the absorption of salts from the substratum, plants
capable of enduring concentrated saline solutions in their cells acquire
a certain degree of accommodation, whereby they are enabled to satisfy
their demands for water from increasingly concentrated solutions. The
importance of this property to the oecology of plants is, however, under
natural conditions, less than might be supposed from the results of laboratory
experiments, since the concentration of salts in the soil is usually exposed
to considerable changes. Thus, for instance, the root-system of a littoral
plant, according to the alternations of sunshine and rain, storm and calm,
ebb and flow, is bathed in turns by fresh water, or by ordinary or even
concentrated sea-water.
The soluble salts in the soil, not only during their absorption, but also,
at least so far as they are not consumed by the plant, during their whole
passage through it, exercise osmotic actions that greatly affect the pro-
cesses of development. Thus, merely moderately strong saline solutions
cause, as does drought, the closure of the stomata of many plants, especially
of those whose natural habitats are deficient in salt, and thereby power-
fully affect the assimilation of carbon 2 . The retarding influence on growth
of concentrated saline solutions has been frequently observed, and is in
all probability primarily traceable to this factor.
The indispensability to vegetable organisms of certain mineral con-
stituents of the soil, especially nitric, phosphoric, and sulphuric acids, potash,
lime and magnesia, as well as iron, depends not on their physical, but on
their chemical properties. Some of their elements become constituents of
protoplasm, and others play a part in metabolism that is indeed secondary
but yet quite necessary.
But it is not merely substances which are indispensable to plants that
influence their chemical relations. Even those that can always be dis-
pensed with set going, if they are absorbed, both physical and chemical
actions which influence vegetable organisms, sometimes favourably, some-
times injuriously, and sometimes in a manner that is quite recognizable but
is apparently indifferent oecologically. Above a certain degree of con-
centration all substances entering a plant in large quantities are poisonous,
if they are either not at once, or not at all, assimilated. The degree of
concentration at which a solution begins to be poisonous varies with its
chemical composition and with the species of the plant. The inequality
of the pozvers of resistance of different species is to a great extent responsible
for the differences in the floras of substrata that differ chemically from one
another.
1 See p. 4. " Stahl, op. cit.
