Chap. V] THE SOIL 87
Besides the relatively simple and direct physical and chemical actions
mentioned above, salts exercise a more or less visible but indirect influence
on the structure of vegetable organisms. Easily soluble salts evoke
protective means against transpiration identical with those accompanying
life in a dry soil, and these for the most part are to be ascribed oecologically
to the impeded absorption of water *. Such protective means are met
with both when the soluble salt is nutritive, as for instance saltpetre, and
when it is useless and not assimilable, like sodium chloride. Yet in the
latter case the salts commence to act in less concentrated solutions and
with greater intensity. From this we may learn that protective means
against transpiration oppose the increasing concentration of a salt that soon
becomes poisonous, and consequently in the case of injurious salts they step
in earlier than would be necessary if the salts in the substratum merely
rendered difficult the absorption of sufficient water to cover the loss due to
transpiration. Whilst the protective means against transpiration appear to
be influenced only as to their earlier or later occurrence by the chemical
differences in the substances absorbed, these act in a definite specific way,
which perhaps resembles the changes induced in their host-plant by
certain fungi. Many of the modifications thus caused in the structure of
plants have a decidedly pathological character, and rarely, or never, occur
under natural conditions. Others, on the contrary, in no way impair the
vitality of the plant, and are extremely important in rendering com-
prehensible the diversities in the floras of soils that differ chemically. To
this latter class belong, independently of the protective means against
transpiration mentioned above, the modifications caused in the structure of
plants by sodium chloride, salts of zinc, serpentine (a silicate of magnesium),
and calcium carbonate.
3. SODIUM CHLORIDE.
i. PRESENCE AND FUNCTION OF SODIUM CHLORIDE IN PLANTS.
It has been proved by means of cultures in artificial nutritive substrata,
especially in culture-solutions, that sodium chloride is of no significance as
a nutritive material in the case of most plants. For the normal develop-
ment of Fagopyrum esculentum this salt has, however, been found necessary,
and it is probably necessary for some other plants also, although the
number of species with which experiments have been conducted is rela-
tively small.
Plants that require sodium chloride can obtain it in all natural soils, for
only a small amount is probably needed in each case. All plants, how-
ever, to which chlorides, especially sodium chloride, are offered, actually
1 See p. 4.
