88 THE FACTORS [Part I
take them up, and frequently in quantities that are not inconsiderable, even
if, as is proved experimentally, the plants can thrive quite normally without
them.
Chlorides do not appear to enter into organic compounds, but remain
unchanged in the sap of the parenchyma and in the epidermis, where they
can be easily micro-chemically recognized *.
Small quantities of sodium chloride (and of potassium chloride) are
apparently endured without injury by all plants. If, however, the ground
be watered with a 2-3 °/ o solution of common salt, most species perish in
a short time. The only plants to persist are halophytes, which are plants
living naturally in saline habitats like the sea-shore, also a few non-halo-
phytes with marked protection against transpiration. Such plants thrive
excellently on a soil soaked with sea-water (2-J-^2°/ o sodium chloride)
and store up considerable quantities of salt, chiefly in their stems and
leaves. If the concentration of the solution be further increased, however,
even these species successively die.
According to Wolffs 'Ash-Tables,' the percentages of chlorine in the ash of some
sea-shore halophytes were as follows: Armeria maritima, 12-69-15-10; Artemisia
maritima, 26-68, though only 1-99 in its root ; Aster Tripolium, leaves 43-00, stem
49-90, flowers 19-10; Chenopodium maritimum, 44-06, stem 47-08; Arenaria media,
36-55 ; Plantago media, 43-53. In my own investigations the micro-chemical test for
sodium chloride gave intense reactions in a large majority, though not in all, of the
littoral plants of Java -.
The amount of chlorine in the ash of inland plants usually does not exceed 5 % ;
but there are exceptions.
Sodium chloride acts on the vegetable organism in part physically, since
like other saline solutions it impedes the osmotic absorption of water
through the roots, and in part chemically, as after its entrance into the
cells it affects metabolism.
Systematically conducted cultures investigating the influence of sodium
chloride on the structure of plants were first carried out by P. Lesage, with
the result that in most cases this salt caused a diminution in the leaf-
surface, an increase in the thickness of the leaf, a lengthening of the
palisade-cells, and a reduction in the intercellular spaces. Also increased
hairiness was observed in some cases by Lesage.
Experiments with cultures and a thorough investigation of the Malay
littoral flora led me to the conclusion, that the morphological characteristics
wliicJi halophytes exhibit agree zuith those of pronounced xerophytes, even
when the former grow in a wet soil, for example in littoral swamps 3 .
There is hardly one of the numerous characteristics capable of being
regarded as protective means against transpiration in the xerophytes of
a dry climate and a dry soil, that is wanting in halophytes, and this quite
1 Schimper, I. 2 Schimper, II. 3 See also p. 5 and ft".
