7i6 ZONES AND REGIONS [Pt. Ill, Sect. IV
considering the shortness of the growing season, evergreen foliage appears to
be very suitable ; but what are the influences which determined the adop-
tion of this habit in types that, like willows, are deciduous elsewhere, is still
unknown. Also the earlier development of the flowers in comparison
with the lowlands is physiologically unexplained. Many phenomena are
even oecologically enigmatic, for instance the cushion-growth, which is
obviously an adaptation to the alpine climate, and the characteristic habit
of the elfin-wood. Both cases are most probably connected with the
violent winds. Strong wind is the sole feature common to the habitats
of the cushion-plants on the islands in southern seas and in the alpine
region, and the elfin-tree form is repeated frequently in trees and shrubs
standing alone on open windy sea-coasts.
iii. THE OCCURRENCE OF ALPINE SPECIES OF PLANTS IN
LOWER REGIONS.
The flora of the alpine region is composed everywhere of species which
either (a) belong exclusively to it, or (b) occur also in lower mountain
regions and in the lowlands. Plants belonging to the second category are
particularly interesting, as their occurrence in different habitats throws
much light on conditions of existence in the alpine climate, and confirms
the views already arrived at.
Species from the grassy tracts of the lowlands, that occur on alpine
meadow and mountain steppe, appear to be so modified, that they are
frequently distinguished as varieties — var. alpina. Such alpine forms possess
peculiarities that we have learned to recognize as the direct effects of the
mountain climate.
Alpine plants that occur in the moist basal and montane regions betray
by their habitats their marked xerophilous character. Thus, a number of
Javanese alpine plants occur in the lower rainy regions, but there either
as epiphytes, for instance Rhododendron javanicum, R. retusum, Vaccinium
polyanthum, or as plants of the saline soil of solfataras 1 . In Japan, Mayr
has also observed a rich vegetation of alpine plants in the solfataras of
lower regions. For the same reasons many alpine species from the Atlas
Mountains occur in Algiers on the sea-shore, but not in intervening
regions 2 .
In the above-mentioned cases, the analogy in the conditions of existence
at the different stations consists in the impeded water-supply, risk from which
is guarded against by the possession of xerophilous characters. Tempera-
ture does not enter into the question. On the other hand, temperature
is a factor, with those inducing xerophily, determining the occurrence
of many lowland plants of higher latitudes on high mountains of lower
1 See p. 386. 2 See Battandier, op. cit.
