Chap. V] THE SOIL 91
of the commonest cultivated trees in the tropics grow under natural
conditions only on the saline soil of the sea-shore ; such are Cocos nucifera,
Cycas circinalis, Casuarina equisetifolia. Terminalia Catappa, Erythrina
indica, Calophyllum Inophyllum, and many others. There can be no
doubt that by means of the wind, of animals, of currents of water, seeds of
halophytes frequently reach non-saline soil. They would there find con-
genial conditions, if their competitors did not hinder them from establishing
themselves l . The competition of more vigorous plants, however, excludes
halophytes from all localities, except those that are rich in salt.
It is evident that the struggle for space has always been most severe on
soils that offer favourable conditions for the majority of plants. In the
course of time many forms have been driven out of specially favoured
localities by competitors that have become stronger than they. Many of
these conquered forms have perished, while others have owed their persistence
to certain characters by means of which they were enabled to colonize
unhealthy territories. Thus, of the expelled plants, those were able to find
a refuge on saline soil that had already on ordinary soil become accustomed
to store up plenty of common salt and had thus been rendered immune
from its poisonous action. The reduced competition on saline soil permitted
them to establish themselves permanently there.
The property of storing salt and existing intact on saline soil does not
in itself of course render it impossible to continue the struggle in more
favourable habitats. There are actually a number of species of plants that
occur equally in saline and in non-saline habitats, such as Asparagus
officinalis and Samolus Valerandi.
4. OTHER EASILY SOLUBLE SALTS.
Sodium chloride is the only easily soluble salt which saturates the soil in
concentrated solutions over extensive areas. Other salts of similar solubility
appear only locally in large quantities and their action on vegetation is
therefore less known. The presence of larg'e quantities of alum in the
warm swampy soil of the solfataras of Java and Japan causes the appearance,
in the centre of hygrophytic regions, of xerophilous plants, which are not,
as in ordinary saline soil, in part peculiar to the habitat, but are individuals
that have emigrated from the nearest habitat of xerophilous plants. Some
of them are plants that elsewhere grow as epiphytes on dry bark, some are
immigrants from cool dry alpine regions. The factors which render xero-
philous structure a condition vital to these plants, are evidently the same as
those in the case of common salt, namely, difficulty in absorbing water, and
injurious action of the salt in the assimilating cells 2 .
1 On page So has been described the appearance of elsewhere exclusive littoral halo-
phytes in the interior of Krakatoa, where there is not yet any competition.
2 See Schimper, I.
