92
THE FACTORS
[Part I
Saltpetre also induces a xerophilous structure, but only at a higher con-
centration, and even then less decidedly than common salt. This difference
favours the opinion that the decided nature of the xerophilous structure in
ordinary halophytes, must partly afford protection against poisonous saline
action, and therefore appears sooner than in the case of saltpetre, which is
injurious only when more highly concentrated.
Such a concentration is not usually attained in
places rich in nitrates, at any rate not in the
case of plants, such as many Solanaceae, Cruci-
ferae, Chenopodiaceae,Fumaria,Sambucus nigra,
and others, that have a tendency to store salt-
petre in their tissues, and usually exhibit a rank
growth in such places. The nitrate fields of
America, however, on account of their extreme
dryness possess a decided xerophilous flora.
5. SERPENTINE.
Serpentine, a very slightly soluble silicate of
magnesium, acts in such a way on two Central
European species of fern, Asplenium viride and
A. Adiantum-nigrum, that they are changed
into different forms which have for some time
been taken for distinct species. Sadebeck
succeeded in obtaining a reversion to the ori-
ginal form by cultivating them in ordinary
soil, but not until the sixth generation ; the
attempt to induce any corresponding trans-
formation in the two Asplenia by cultivating
them on serpentine however failed. It is there-
fore evidently a case of an extremely slow
progressive action. The deviations from the
normal type are apparently purely morpho-
logical without any ascertainable use to the
plant.
Asplenium adulterinum, Milde (Fig. 52), the ser-
pentine form of A. viride, assumes in many respects
an intermediate form between that species and A.
Trichomanes. For instance, the rachis is brown
below and green above. Its peculiar habit is due
to the extreme convexity of the leaflets and their perpendicularity to the rachis ; the
two allied forms have somewhat long plane leaflets, parallel to the rachis. But
according to Liirssen, this characteristic is not constant. Asplenium serpentini,
Tausch, differs from the typical A. Adiantum-nigrum by the segments being
Fig. 52. Asplenium adulteri
num. Natural size. After Liirs
sen.
