Chap. V]
THE SOIL
93
wedge-shaped at the base and by having more delicate, more herbaceous, dull,
deciduous leaves.
Both forms must be considered as fully adapted to their subtratum, for they
flourish on it with the greatest vigour and abundance. Asplenium adulterinum
almost entirely suppresses the common A. Trichomanes on serpentine, whilst the
original form A. viride has been only exceptionally observed. The typical A.
Adiantum-nigrum seems completely absent
from serpentine. Kalmus, speaking of the
station of A. adulterinum and A. Trichomanes
near Einsiedel, says that the latter appears to
him to be quite a little people which is only
allowed on sufferance by its superior neigh-
bours and relatives ; and Milde makes the
following remarks about the same plant :
' The first thing that struck me was the great
density of its growth, partly due to the large
number of plants, partly to the immense clumps
which the plant often formed. I have never
observed such vigorous growth in A. viride and
only very rarely in A. Trichomanes V
6. CALAMINE.
The action on plants of large quantities
of the slightly soluble zinc ore usually
known as calamine (zinc carbonate and
silicate) resembles that of serpentine in
so far as it also induces hereditary modi-
fication in some plants, in this case Viola
lutea and Thlaspi alpestre, the physio-
logical and oecological connexion of which
with the nature of their substratum has
as yet obtained no interpretation. The
plants thus modified grow on a zinc soil
in great numbers and luxuriance, and do
not overstep its limits.
Fig. 53. Viola calaminaria.
natural size.
Half
The calamine violet, Viola calaminaria, Lej.
(V. lutea, var. multicaulis, Koch.) (Fig. 53),
differs from other forms of Viola lutea by its rich ramification, its longer stem,
and its smaller corolla, which however varies somewhat in size. In the case
of Thlaspi calaminare, Lej. et Court, the petals are broader than those of the t}^pe
form, and are much longer than the sepals, while the filaments are shorter than the
sepals. The zinc in the soil has induced in the one form an increase, and in
the other form a decrease in the size of the corolla.
1 Sadebeck, I, 11.
