94 THE FACTORS [Part I
Besides its action in producing special varieties, calamine soil is also distinguished
from that of other neighbouring localities by the assemblage of plants composing
its flora. Viola lutea is completely absent from the Rhine country, and is first seen
near Liege. Alsine verna, also common on calamine soil near Aix, is still further
separated from its other localities. Armeria vulgaris is near Aix confined to
calamine soils, and Silene inflata, var. glaberrima, is surprisingly abundant and
luxuriant in places that are richest in zinc.
Plants of calamine soils contain zinc in all their parts; Risse found 13-12 % of zinc
oxide in Thlaspi calaminare ; whilst the ashes of the root, stem, and flowers contain
respectively 1-66, 3-28, and 3-24% of zinc. In Viola calaminaria and Armeria
vulgaris Risse found the largest quantity of zinc oxide in the root (1-52 and 3-58%
respectively of the ash).
7. CALCIUM CARBONATE.
i. ACTION OF CALCIUM CARBONATE ON THE METABOLISM
AND STRUCTURE OF PLANTS.
Among the compounds of calcium in the soil are some important nutritive
salts, such as salts of nitric, phosphoric, and sulphuric acids ; also insoluble
completely indifferent substances such as calcium silicate (labradorite,
andradite, and others) ; and a salt, calcium carbonate, which although not
reckoned as a plant-food, yet affects the metabolism of plants and con-
sequently the character and composition of the vegetation.
Lime combined with carbonic acid occurs in nature as the insoluble and
neutral calcium carbonate CaCO ;5 and as the soluble bicarbonate CaC 2 G H 2 1 .
The former salt cannot, on account of its insolubility, gain admission to
plants ; but on the other hand, the acid salt, which results from the action
of water containing carbon dioxide on the neutral salt and therefore
constantly accompanies it in the soil, is, as water-cultures attest, taken up
by the plant and apparently undecomposed reaches the water-channels,
the sap of which usually contains calcium carbonate. On the other
hand, it is very probable that the calcium carbonate often richly stored in
the cell-walls of active plant organs, for instance in cystoliths, arises as
a secondary product from other compounds of calcium, for example
from the calcium pectate which is always present in cell-walls a or by
double decomposition from the nutritive calcium salts (nitrate, sulphate,
or phosphate). The calcareous coatings of many green aquatic plants
1 According to another theory, the bicarbonate does not occur in nature, but lime-
water rather contains the ordinary calcium carbonate and free carbon dioxide. This
question is without importance in geographical botany.
2 The formation of calcium pectate in living cells is certainly ascribable to processes
similar to those for calcium oxalate, malate, &c. ; cf. Schimper, I, II.
