Chap. V] THE SOIL 95
are, on the contrary, certainly produced by the decomposition of the
bicarbonate and the precipitation of the insoluble neutral salt, resulting
from assimilation 1 .
Calcium carbonate is present in all soils and in all waters, and in small
quantities is endured by all plants. No appreciable action on physiological
processes occurs in such cases. On the other hand, a nutritive solution
rich in calcium is poisonous to many plants, whilst by others it is tolerated in
different cases to a greater or less extent. Those plants that tolerate larger
quantities of calcium carbonate have their metabolism likewise affected
by it, and consequently often undergo visible structural modifications.
Calcium carbonate thus acts as do sodium chloride, serpentine, and
calamine.
The poisonous action of calcium carbonate on many plants is most easily
proved in the case of aquatic vegetation. A supply of water rich in calcium,
for instance, suffices, as Sendtner proved, in a short time to kill the species
of Sphagnum and is not less poisonous to other aquatic mosses. The
same holds true for many Algae that are otherwise common, if we may
judge by their constant absence from water that is rich in calcium. Many
terrestrial plants are scarcely less susceptible. Thus, according to Christ,
a mere sprinkling with water rich in lime suffices, in a short time, to kill
Drosera and most of the other plants associated with bog-mosses on peat-
bogs. According to the same investigator, Lomaria Spicant, Allosorus
crispus, Saxifraga aspera, Phyteuma hemisphaericum, Androsace carnea,
and many others behave in a similar way. On a substratum rich in lime
Kerner cultivated various plants that never appear on a calcareous soil :
' they at once sickened and died without blossoming.' Among trees, the
sweet-chestnut and Pinus Pinaster cannot tolerate a calcareous soil ; accord-
ing to Chatin, even three per cent, of calcium in the soil is fatal to the
sweet-chestnut.
Plants that tolerate large quantities of calcium owe this capacity, as in
the case of halophytes in relation to sodium chloride, to a power of
accommodation which is often associated with visible structural modi-
fications. The connexion between these variations and the influence of
calcium can be explained just as little, either physiologically or oeco-
logically, as the variations induced in Algae by solutions of common salt,
or as the production of peculiar varieties of plants on calamine and serpentine
soils. Possibly we may also include under the same category of chemical
influences certain modifications induced by parasitic fungi in Euphorbia,
Anemone, and other plants.
The first experimental investigations into the influence of lime on the
structure of plants were carried out by Bonnier, after he had noticed that
Ononis Natrix, on soils poor in calcium, possesses a physiognomy different
1 Pringsheim, op. cit.
