96 THE FACTORS [Part I
from that which it exhibits on calcareous soils upon which it usually
grows.
In order to ascertain whether this distinction was due to the influence
of calcium, comparative cultural experiments were undertaken by Bonnier,
in which seeds from one and the same parent were employed, and sown on
soil poor in lime (4 sand, i clay) and on soil rich in lime (ยง calcium
carbonate, i sand). The resulting plants differed in appearance according
to the nature of the substratum. On the soil rich in lime they formed
taller and less spreading tufts, broader leaves, shorter sepals, and possessed
a colour different from that of those on the soil that was poor in lime. Even
histological differences also were observed. The plants that were poor
in calcium possessed a lignified pith, numerous fibres, and thick palisade-
tissue in their leaflets, whereas those grown on calcareous soil produced
an unlignified pith, less numerous fibres, and looser palisade-tissue.
Numerous observations in the field, especially those by Fliche and
Grandeau, have also demonstrated a distinct action of calcium on the
structure of plants.
These observers have recorded that Robinia Pseud-acacia, which is a plant in-
different as regards the chemical constitution of the soil, as it grew in the forest of
Champfetu, exhibited the following variations according as it grew on soil that was
rich or poor in lime : the wood on soil poor in lime assumes a brown colour after
the seventh year, but on calcareous soil not until after the ninth year. The bark
is thinner and denser in the former case, the sap-wood bright brown, whilst on
calcareous soil it is yellow, and the vessels are more numerous and wider. In wood-
parenchyma, starch is more abundant on soils poor in lime, albuminates more
abundant on the calcareous soil. The pods are longer and much broader in the
former case, and more lightly coloured than on calcareous soil.
Masclef examined specimens of Pteris aquilina which were grown side by side on
calcareous and clay soils. In the former case, the rhizomes were shorter, provided
with more numerous and thicker roots, the reserve parenchyma was more feebly
and the protective tissues more strongly developed.
Timbal-Lagrave and Malinvaud discovered that Asclepias Vincetoxicum is repre-
sented by different races on calcareous soil and on soil poor in lime.
Hilgard has made extensive observations in North America on the influence
of calcium on the configuration of plants. Quercus ferruginea and Q. obtusifolia are
stunted on sand and on black prairie soil, but tall and with a different ramification
on calcareous soil. According to Hilgard, an increase of the lime in soils increases
the yield of many economic plants, especially of cotton.
There are, up to the present time, only a few observations available as
to the nature of the influence of calcium carbonate on plant-metabolism.
Yet the critically conducted and extensive researches of Fliche and
Grandeau l have made the first substantial advance in the desired
direction.
1 Fliche et Grandeau, I, II, III.
