Chap. V] THE SOIL 103
The assumption that forms the basis of the whole ' physical theory '
of soils, that calcicolous plants are xerophilous and silicicolous plants
hygrophilous, has no foundation. Waters rich or poor in lime are also,
physiologically considered, equally wet ; sphagnum-moors and grass-
moors are equally moist. But even on a substratum of earth, there are
hygrophytes on calcareous soil and xerophytes on soils poor in lime.
Indeed on basalt the condition is entirely reversed, as silica-plants occupy
the slightly disintegrated rock as xerophytes, and lime-plants the fine
soils as hygrophytes. Instances of decided hygrophytes on calcareous
soil are, for instance, Ranunculus lanuginosus, Arabis alpina, Moehringia
muscosa, Bellidiastrum Michelii, Campanula pusilla.
The greatest dependence on the chemical nature of the substratum
is frequently most strikingly contrasted with the greatest indifference as
regards purely physical conditions. Thus Schultz writes 1 : 'A series of
plants are characterized by their ability to live in any habitat, from the
driest rocky soil to the swampy peat-meadow. Most of these are peculiarly
lime-needing plants ; for example, Polygala comosa, P. amara, Astragalus
danicus, Phyteuma orbiculare, Gentiana cruciata, Prunella grandiflora,
Orchis militaris, Carex flacca.' According to Boulay, Hypnum chryso-
phyllum grows in all stations that are rich in lime, in swamps, on dolomitic
sand, on dry stones, and in meadows. On the other hand, Grimmia
leucophaea and G. trichophylla grow on nearly all the kinds of soil as
classified by Thurmann, on the one condition that these are poor in
lime. Achillea moschata and A. atrata, in the regions where they grow
together, are markedly confined to one kind of soil, the former to a silicious
soil, the latter to a calcareous soil, yet they are quite indifferent as to
the physical characters of the soil.
From what has been said it follows that the difference between the
lime-flora and the silica-flora must be attributed solely, or at least mainly,
to the chemical characters of the soil. Here also must we therefore seek
for the key to the enigmatical phenomenon, that, according to the environ-
ment, one and the same species of plant shows an inconstant relation
to the chemical nature of the soil. The cause of this different behaviour
evidently depends on the fact that, as has been shown above 2 , a plant
grown on a substratum inch in lime is an organism of different constitution,
and tJiereforc has different physiological qualities and a different oecology
from a plant groivn on a substratum that is poor in lime.
Different plant-organisms differ in their behaviour in relation to external
influences, and the differences in nearly allied plants are as great as, or
may be greater than, they are in plants which are not allied. Whatever
may benefit the lime-form of a species will therefore frequently favour
the silica-form to a less degree, or will even injure it. External conditions,
1 Schultz, op. cit., p. 43. - See p. 95.
