104
THE FACTORS
[Part I
hoiuever, change with the area 1 . In one area the silica-form, in another
the lime-form, is better adapted to local conditions, whilst in a third area
both forms may be able to maintain themselves in the struggle for existence.
Accordingly, one and the same species is calciphobons in the first area,
calciphilous in the second, and indifferent in the third.
An instructive example of the dissimilar physiological properties of
the lime-form and the silica-form of the same species of plant is afforded
by Pinus uncinata. This pine in its lime-form, at least in Switzerland
and Bavaria, prefers dry gravel, whilst in its silica-form it avoids stony
dry spots and occurs only
on moorlands. In other
regions, with a different cli-
mate, probably both forms
would behave in another
manner.
Nageli and Christ have
proved, in the case of
closely allied species of
Gentiana, Achillea, and
Rhododendron, that closely
allied plant-organisms be-
have very differently as re-
gards the chemical quality
of their substratum. Thus,
in Switzerland, Gentiana
acaulis is calciphilous, where-
asthecloselyallied Gentiana
excisa (Fig. 54), which is
usually considered as a
mere variety of the former,
is calciphobous ; neither of
them is quite exclusive
in its choice. Similar pairs, although less like, are Achillea atrata and
A. moschata (Fig. 55), Rhododendron hirsutum and R. ferrugineum,
Androsace pubescens and A. glacialis, Juncus Hostii and J. trifidus,
of which pairs the species first named is calciphilous. Kerner has drawn
up a long list of such parallel species 2 .
The parallel forms are usually confined to their respective soils in the
regions where both occur, but are indifferent as regards their choice of
soil, wherever one of them is absent. Nageli 3 has ingeniously indicated
1 The remarkably great susceptibility of a plant-organism to insignificant external in-
fluences follows from Wettstein's brilliant researches on Gentiana and Euphrasia.
2 Kerner, I. s Nageli, op. cit.
Fig. 54. 1. Gentiana excisa, Presl. Calciphobons. 2. Gen-
tiana acanlis, L. ex p. Calciphilous. Two-thirds of natural
size.
