958 STATUTES OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
CHAPTER VII
The Treasurer and the Treasury
Article 1. The Treasurer shall collect all money due or payable to
the Academy, and all gifts and bequests made to it. He shall pay all
bills due by the Academy, when approved by the proper officers, except
those of the Treasurer's office, which may be paid without such ap-
proval; in the name of the Academy he shall sign all leases of real
estate; and, with the written consent of a member of the Committee
on Finance, he shall make all transfers of stocks, bonds, and other
securities belonging to the Academy, all of which shall be in his official
custody.
He shall keep a faithful account of all receipts and expenditures,
submit his accounts annually to the Auditing Committee, and render
them at the expiration of his term of office, or whenever required to
do so by the Academy or the Council.
He shall keep separate accounts of the income of the Rumford Fund,
and of all other special Funds, and of the appropriation thereof, and
render them annually.
His accounts shall always be open to the inspection of the Council.
Article 2. He shall report annually to the Council at its March
meeting on the expected income of the various Funds and from all
other sources during the ensuing financial year. He shall also report
the names of all Fellows who may be then delinquent in the payment
of their Annual Dues.
Article 3. He shall give such security for the trust reposed in him
as the Academy may require.
Article 4. With the approval of a majority of the Committee on
Finance, he may appoint an Assistant Treasurer to perform his du-
ties, for whose acts, as such assistant, he shall be responsible; or, with
like approval and responsibility, he may employ any Trust Company
doing business in Boston as his agent for the same purpose, the com-
pensation of such Assistant Treasurer or agent to be fixed by the
Committee on Finance and paid from the funds of the Academy.
Article 5. At the Annual Meeting he shall report in print all his
official doings for the preceding year, stating the amount and condition
