CONTRIBUTIONS FROM THE CRYPTOGAMIC LABORATORIES
OF HARVARD UNIVERSITY. No. LXXVII.
NEW INDO-MALAYAN LABOULBENIALES.
By Roland Thaxter,
Received May 24, 1915. Presented May 12, 1915.
The new forms which are described in the present paper have been
obtained from several sources. A portion of the Javan material was
found on insects purchased from the late M. Rouyer, and a small
number were also obtained from certain hosts kindly collected for
me by Dr. W. P. Thompson. All the forms from Samarang, which
include a great majority of the Javan species, were partly found on
miscellaneous insects which ]Mr. E. Jacobson was so kind as to have his
assistant collect for me, while the infested crickets were discovered
by Mr. Jacobson himself, who is thus the first to have observed that
hosts of this nature were bearers of Laboulbeniales, and to whom
I am especially indebted for this noteworthy addition to our knowledge
of the group. Through the very great kindness of Mr. T. Fetch of the
Peradeniya Gardens, to whom I am under deep obligations for his
trouble in personally collecting miscellaneous insects which he has
sent me for examination, our knowledge of the Ceylon forms has been
very materially increased. A few specimens have also been obtained
from the Museum of Comparative Zodlogy in Cambridge. I am
further indebted for determinations of Staphilinidae to Dr. Max
Bernhauer; of the forficulids to Dr. Malcolm Burr; of the other
Orthoptera to Mr. A. N. Caudell, and for certain generic determina-
tions to Mr. Schwartz and Mr. Barber of the National Museum. To
all these gentlemen I desire to express my obligations for the trouble
which they have taken in my behalf.
The new and very striking forms on Gri/Uus and Gri/Uofalpa collected
by Mr. Jacobson, have a special interest since not only are these new
types of hosts for the Laboulbeniales, but the species which infest
them are unusually interesting and peculiar. The two forms on
GnjUus, which I have placed in the genus Laboulbenia, are noteworthy
in that they combine the characters of this genus and of Ccraiomyces in
such a way as to definitely confirm my previously expressed opinion
