PERTHITIC FELDSPARS. 135
The magnifications used were naturally varied according to the width
of the particular lamellae in the section under measurement, \\itli
the basal sections particularly, it was foimd convenient to diminish
the intensity of the illumination by lowering the condensing system
and slightly raising the objective so as to bring out the contrast be-
tween the refractions of the two kinds of feldspar, thus clearly marking
their respecti\'e boundaries. Crossing of the nicols was, however,
constantly resorted to to make sure of the correct position of the
boundaries. In the case of the brachypinacoidal sections it was in
general found more convenient and quicker to measure with crossed
nicols. Sometimes both the width of the microcline and al!)ite bands
were measured, but in general only the albite was measured, the micro-
cline being determined by difference.
In order to obtain a true estimate of the accuracy of these measure-
ments, the deviations of the individual measurements from the mean
should have been found and the precision measure computed by the
usual methods. Such a procedure involves a great expenditure of
labor and is, in the present case, unwarranted because, however pre-
cise the results may be, there would still remain the rather consider-
able error (estimated to be probably ± 1 per cent) which arises from
the fact that there are included within the microcline member many
minute lamellae or stringers of albite impossible to measure exactly.
There is also the impossibility, as will be pointed out later, of getting
at the exact composition of the albite phase itself. It seemed, there-
fore, sufficient to choose as units, in judging the precision of the
results of the micrometric measurements, the separate lines of measure-
ment. Accordingly, in Table No. I are given for inspection, the total
length measured for each section, the numl)er of lines, their average
length, and the average deviation from the mean of the volume per-
centages obtained from each line. The deviation of the mean itself
from the true value is V/i times as probable as any single observation,
n being the number of separate observations (here the numljer of
separate lines of measurement). In the column headed A.D. are given
the products -p^ for each feldspar measured. This indicates that,
so far as errors of observation are concerned, the means are probably
within one per cent of the true ^'alue. An estimate of the probable
error (P. P].) by the usual formula, using the single lines of measure-
ment as the units of observation, would have given slightly smaller
values than those given under A.D., but the computation is hardly
worth while in this instance. Inasmuch as the average width of a
