OF ARTS AND SCIENCES. 961
They shall hold their respective positions during the pleasure of the
Council.
Article 5. It may appoint, for terms not exceeding one year, and
prescribe the functions of, such committees of its number, or of the
Fellows of the Academy, as it may deem expedient, to facilitate the
administration of the affairs of the Academy or to promote its interests.
Article 6. At its March meeting it shall receive reports from the
President, the Secretaries, the Treasurer, and the Standing Commit-
tees, on the appropriations severally needed for the ensuing financial
year. At the same meeting the Treasurer shall report on the expected
income of the various Funds and from all other sources during the
same year.
A report from the Council shall be submitted to the Academy, for
action, at the March meeting, recommending the appropriation which
in the opinion of the Council should be made.
On the recommendation of the Council, special appropriations may
be made at any Stated Meeting of the Academy, or at a Special Meet-
ing called for the purpose.
See Chap. x. art. 3.
Article 7. After the death of a Fellow or Foreign Honorary Mem-
ber, it shall appoint a member of the Academy to prepare a Memoir for
publication in the Proceedings.
Article 8. It shall report at every meeting of the Academy such
business as it may deem advisable to present.
See Chap. ii. art. 4, 5, 8; chap. iv. art. 1, 2; chap. vi. art. 1; chap. vii.
art. 1; chap. xi. art. 1, 4.
CHAPTER X
Standing Committees
Article 1. The Class Committee of each Class shall consist of the
Vice-President, who shall be chairman, and the four Councillors of the
Class, together with such other officer or officers annually elected as
may belong to the Class. It shall consider nominations to Fellowship
in its own Class, and report in writing to the Council such as may
receive at a Class Committee Meeting a majority of the votes cast,
provided at least three shall have been in the affirmative.
See Chap. iii. art, 2.
