962 STATUTES OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
Article 2. At the Annual Meeting the following Standing Com-
mittees shall be elected by ballot to serve for the ensuing year:
(i) The Committee on Finance, to consist of three Fellows, who,
through the Treasurer, shall have full control and management of the
funds and trusts of the Academy, with the power of investing the funds
and of changing the investments thereof in their discretion.
See Chap. iv. art. 3; chap. vii. art. 1,4; chap. ix. art. 6.
(ii) The Rumford Committee, to consist of seven Fellows, who shall
report to the Academy on all applications and claims for the
Rumford Premium. It alone shall authorize the purchase of books
publications and apparatus at the charge of the income from the
Rumford Fund, and generally shall see to the proper execution of the
trust.
See Chap. iv. art. 3; chap. ix. art. 6.
(iii) The Cyrus Moors Warren Committee, to consist of seven Fel-
lows, who shall consider all applications for appropriations from the
income of the Cyrus Moors Warren Fund, and generally shall see to
the proper execution of the trust.
See Chap. iv. art. 3; chap. ix. art. 6.
(iv) The Committee of Publication, to consist of three Fellows, one
from each Class, to whom all communications submitted to the
Academy for publication shall be referred, and to whom the printing
of the Proceedings and the Memoirs shall be entrusted.
It shall fix the price at which the Publications shall be sold; but
Fellows may be supplied at half price with volumes which may be
needed to complete their sets, but which they are not entitled to
receive gratis.
Two hundred extra copies of each paper accepted for publication in
the Proceedings or the Memoirs shall be placed at the disposal of the
author without charge.
See Chap. iv. art. 3; chap. vi. art. 1, 3; chap. ix. art. 6.
(v) The Committee on the Library, to consist of the Librarian, ex
officio, as Chairman, and three other Fellows, one from each Class,
who shall examine the Library and make an annual report on its
condition and management.
See Chap. iv. art. 3; chap. viii. art. 1,2; chap. ix. art. 6.
