964 STATUTES OF THE AMERICAN ACADEMY
Fellows having the right to vote; and notifications thereof shall state
the purpose for which the meeting is called.
A meeting for receiving and discussing literary or scientific com-
munications may be held on the fourth Wednesday of each month,
excepting July, August, and September; but no business shall be
transacted at said meetings.
Article 2. Twenty Fellows having the right to vote shall consti-
tute a quorum for the transaction of business at Stated or Special
Meetings. Fifteen Fellows shall be sufficient to constitute a meeting
for literary or scientific communications and discussions.
Article 3. Upon the request of the presiding officer or the Record-
ing Secretary, any motion or resolution offered at any meeting shall
be submitted in writing.
Article 4. No report of any paper presented at a meeting of the
Academy shall be published by any Fellow without the consent of the
author; and no report shall in any case be published by any Fellow in
a newspaper as an account of the proceedings of the Academy without
the previous consent and approval of the Council. The Council, in
its discretion, by a duly recorded vote, may delegate its authority in
this regard to one or more of its members.
Article 5. No Fellow shall introduce a guest at any meeting of
the Academy until after the business has been transacted, and espe-
cially until after the result of the balloting upon nominations has
been declared. -< -
Article 6. The Academy shall not express its judgment on
literary or scientific memoirs or performances submitted to it, or
included in its Publications.
Article 7. All proposed Amendments of the Statutes shall be re-
ferred to a committee, and on its report, at a subsequent Stated Meet-
ing or at a Special Meeting called for the purpose, two thirds of the
ballot cast, and not less than twenty, must be affirmative to effect
enactment.
Article 8. Standing Votes may be passed, amended, or rescinded
at a Stated Meeting, or at a Special Meeting called for the purpose,
by a vote of two thirds of the members present. They may be
suspended by a unanimous vote.
See Chap. ii. art. 5, 8; chap, iii.; chap. iv. art. 3, 4, 5; chap, v. art. 1 ;
chap. vi. art. 1,2; chap. ix. art. 8.
