PERTHITIC FELDSPARS. 141
duced by the error in the estimate of minute albite lamellae contained
in the microcline, and there is an even chance, at least, that it may off-
set that error. It is necessary to assume that the amount of potassic
feldspar dissolved in the albites of the other specimens is the same as
in the one analyzed, and it was also assumed that the lime shown by
the analyses, is all present in solid solution in the albite as the anor-
thite molecule. There appears to be very little likelihood of these
two assumptions being far wrong. Making the assumptions noted
above, the computation, from the data collected in Tables I and II, of
the chemical compositions of the two mixed crystals which enter into
the perthitic intergrowths is a simple matter. The results are given,
culculatcd to 100%, in Table III, in which are also repeated in an
abbreviated form a part of the data of Table II. Taking into consider-
ation the various sources of error it is thought that the total error is
certainly not greater than 2.0 units in the final figures for the mixed-
crystal phases and is probably less.
Discussion of Results. — Reference to Table III will show that there
is quite a jump from No. 1, the feldspar from Perth, Ontario, with
52.3 per cent of the microcline member to No. 8, the next nearest, with
72.3 per cent. The remaining feldspars show a distribution of values
from 72.3 per cent to 86.2 per cent of microcline. Nos. 4, 5 and 6
are, however, quite close together, and admitting that the percentages
given may be 1 per cent too high or too low, may be said to be practi-
cally identical so far as the relative amounts of the two members are
concerned. A preliminary study of several other feldspars from other
localities leads the writer to believe that these too would, if measured,
fall within the range above given. As the feldspars studied are be-
lieved to be representative of granite pegmatite perthites in general,
it is perhaps safe to say that such feldspars will most often be found to
contain from 70 per cent to 87 per cent, approximately, of the micro-
cline phase.
The amounts of the orthoclase and albite (plus anorthite) molecules
as computed from the chemical analyses also show a considerable
difference between No. 1 (Or. 51.9 per cent) and the next nearest,
No. 7 (Or. 67.2 per cent). The rest lie nearer together. Omitting
No. 1, the range of the remaining is from Or. 67.2 per cent to Or. 80.6
per cent, or 13.4 per cent.
It will be seen that the amount of KAlSiaOs in the microcline falls
between 93.0 per cent and 88.5 per cent (±2.0). The variation appears
to be greater than the estimated error and probably represents real
differences of composition. The amount of Ab+An ranges between
