PERTHITIC FELDSPARS. 143
7.0 per cent and 11.5 per cent. The albite mixed-crystal shows about
the same order of variation in the amounts of NaAlSisOg. The anor-
thite variations are proportionally larger, the amounts of this mole-
cule varying from about 3.0 per cent to 8.0 per cent. The writer,
therefore, concludes that the microcline mixed-crystals of the granite
pegmatite perthites will in general contain around 9.0 per cent of the
albite phase in solid solution, and that the albite mixed-crystal contains
about 8.0 per cent of the KAlSisOg molecule plus a small, but rather
variable amount, 3.0 per cent to 8.0 per cent, of anorthite. The
^elati^^e amounts of the orthoclase molecule and of the albite plus
anorthite will in general be found to range from about 70-30 per
cent to 80-20 per cent, though in exceptional cases much greater
variations may occur, as No. 1 with 51.9 per cent of the orthoclase
molecule present.
Discussion of the origin of Perthitic inter growths. — It was formerly
held by several mineralogists ^^ that the perthitic intergrowths were
formed by the introduction of albite from without into previously
formed microcline crystals. This view is probably now entertained
by few. While there are undoubted instances where albite has been
introduced from without by later mineralizing action along cleavage
or fracture lines, or by more irregular replacement about the margins,
there is usually in such cases, independent evidence in the surround-
ing rock that such action has been going on. In the case of the great
majority of perthitic intergrowths, at any rate, such evidence is lack-
ing. It is difficult to see how albite could be introduced into the
microcline so uniformly and extensively, with the perfect preservation
of the microcline's structure, if the openings, along which the former
was introduced, were prepared by a breaking of the original micro-
cline. Furthermore, such breaking could hardly be effected by any
form of crushing without a general deorientation of the fragments,
nor is it likely that the microcline crystal could be ruptured in such
fashion by any sudden change of volume incident to a possible
passage through an inversion point. Anyway fracturing of the micro-
cline would most likely follow along the more important directions
of weakness, the principle cleavages, and these directions are not
those followed by the albite growths. It also seems improbable
that the albite could have worked its way into the microcline along
lines of easy solubility by a replacement process. If such were the
case we should expect to find the replacement more marked about
13 In this connection see particularly O. Wenglein, Inaug. Diss. Kiel., (1903).
