144 WARREN,
the marginal parts of the crystals. Instead we fine that a striking
feature of such intergrowths is the uniformity of the albite distri-
bution taken as a whole throughout the entire crystal. We should
also hardly expect that a wholesale replacement such as would be
represented by the case of feldspar No. 1 (47.7 per cent Ab.) could be
effected without causing a profound dislocation, or even a complete
breaking up, of the original microcline crystal structure. It seems
necessary to abandon this theory, particularly as the one given below
offers an entirely reasonable explanation of the observed facts and is
in keeping with the physico-chemical theory relative to such systems.
J. H. L. Vogt ^* appears to have been the first to definitely formulate
a physico-chemical theory to account for the origin of the perthitic
intergrowths. As a result of an extensive statistical study of the
chemical data regarding the compositions of the feldspars which were
first to crystallize from rock magmas of different composition, he was
led to conclude that the alkalic feldspars, orthoclase and albite (plus
some anorthite), formed a broken series of mixed-crystals with a
eutectic point between them. He estimated that the two mixed-
crystal phases had the approximate composition. Or, 72 per cent;
Ab + An, 28 per cent, and Ab -f x\n, 88 per cent; Or, 12 per cent
(Points i and q on the diagram, Fig. IV). He was also led to conclude,
judging, among other things, from their rough constancy of chemical
composition and their structure, that the so-called " cryptoperthites "
described by Brogger and others,^^ represented a eutectic mixture ^^ —
a simultaneous crystallization of the two mixed-crystals — and that
the eutectic composition lay in the region Or, 40^4 per cent; Ab +
An, 60-56 per cent or approximately Or, 42 per cent; Ab -}- An 58
per cent (Point E, Fig. IV) . He furthermore pointed out that, in all
probability with lowering temperatures (and perhaps also only under
considerable pressures) a change would occur in the chemical composi-
tions of the mixed-crystals, due to diminished solubility of the com-
ponents and also, probably, to the occurrence of an inversion point
in the potassic feldspar from an a to a |S modification, viz. — from
orthoclase to microcline. He estimated the chemical compositions
of the finally resulting crystals of microcline to be in the neighborhood
14 Loc. cit.
15 Zoit. fur. Kryst. n. Min., 16, 537.
16 It of course does not follow that the cryptoperthitic feldspars represent
the only form which the feldspar eutectic can assume. Separate crystalliza-
tions of the two members might form under certain favorable conditions. A
fine grained aggregate or an intergrowth would perhaps be the most probable
form to result from such a mixture. See later regarding this point.
