PERTHITIC FELDSPARS. 145
of Mic. 85-90 percent; Ab + An, 15-10 per cent. The albite set
free by such a change — unmixing — might be expected to withdraw
more or less completely from the microcline, and orientate itself in
positions such as those occupied by the albite lamellae in the perthite
intergrowths. This unmixing would also doubtless coarsen the tex-
ture in the case of the cryptoperthite feldspars.
The present writer believes that there is little doubt but that in the
compositions of the homogeneous alkali-feldspar phenocrysts of our
effusive or intrusive rocks we have evidence that the potassic and sodic
feldspars form what amounts to a continuous series of mixed-crystals.
He has also pointed out in the case of the alkaline-granites and their
associated cover rocks of porph^Titic texture, occurring in the region
of the Blue Hills and Quincy, Massachusetts,^^ that, whereas, in the
relatively quickly chilled (quenched) porphyries, the phenocrysts are,
or were originally, a homogeneous soda-potash-feldspar, in the under-
lying and more slowly cooled granites, the feldspars, of substantially
the same composition, are a microcline-microperthite. It was also
pointed out in the paper alluded to, that the phenocrysts of the
porphyries were easily altered and recrystallized, wholly or in part,
and appeared to have been generally quite unstable as originally
formed. The conclusion was drawn that the alkali-feldspars probably
form at relatively high temperatures a complete series of homogeneous
mixed-crystals, but at lower temperatures, probably as a result of
an inversion, they formed a broken series of mixed-crystals with a
eutectic point, as was proposed by Vogt. The phenocrj^sts would,
therefore, represent the earlier formed phase caught in the rapidly
chilled and consolidated magma and prevented from unmixing by
the great inertia to molecular rearrangements characteristic of the
solid state — an unstable phase in other words. The granitic feld-
spars on the other hand, crystallizing under more fa^'orable condi-
tions to the adjustment of equilibria, underwent the unmixing more
or less completely, and being crystallographically very similar, finally
crystallized in parallel position as a perthitic intergrowth.
The writer suggested that the feldspars might first crystallize as a
series of mixed-crystals belonging to type I of Rooseboom's classifica-
tions of binary systems. Dittler ^^ has offered on the other hand
experimental evidence to show that these feldspars belong to type III
of Rooseboom's classification, viz. a continuous series of mixed-crystals
17 These Proceedings, 40, No. 5, 817-323 (1913).
18 Dittler, E. Die Schmeltzpunktkurvc von Kalnatronfeldspathen, T. M.
P.,B. B. 3, 513-522 (1912).
