4 THAXTER.
that the two genera might have to be united (see These Proceedings, L,
p. 45). The genus Ceraiomyces was originally based on the diptero-
philous C. Dahlii from New Guinea, in which not only are cells III-V
replaced by a single cell but the appendage has the appearance of
being single, that is of arising from one basal cell. In this species, also,
a well de\eloped penetrating rhizoid is developed. What appears to
be the basal cell in this species should probably be regarded, however,
as the insertion-cell; the basal cells of the two branches which arise
from it, representing the basal cells of the typical outer and inner
appendage in Laboulbenia. A sufficient numlier of forms ha\"e now
accumulated on Diptera and Coleoptera which, taken in connection
with the two forms on Gryllus described below, make it evident that
Ceraiomyces had best be discarded. The forms which ma}' be included
in this general section represent a tendency toward the development of
a more simple receptacle, just as the aquatic species, and some others,
show a tendency toward greater complication than is present in the
type-forms. In one of the two closely allied species described below on
Gryllus, the black insertion-cell bears but a single basal appendage-
cell, while cell \^ is present and is proliferous in a fashion resembling
that seen in Laboulbenia proliferans. In the second species, which is so
closely allied that it might almost be regarded as a variety only, the
structure is exactly that of a typical Laboulbenia, although in both
the host is penetrated by a well developed rhizoid. The species here-
tofore described under Ceraiomyces may therefo're best be transferred
to Laboulbenia which will therefore include the following forms:
Laboulbenia Dahlii, L. Selenae, L. Epitricis, L. obesa, L. mi-
niscula, L. dislocata, L. Trinidadensis, L. Chaetocnemae, and
L. Nisotrae.
Dimeromyces falcatus nov. sp.
Male indiridual. Pale straw-yellow or nearly hyaline, consisting
of usually five superposed cells (four to eight) terminating in a small
unicellular appendage bluntly pointed, slightly tapering, about three
times longer than broad; the basal cell running into the large long
somewhat irregular foot, somewhat bent, about twice as long as
])road, narrower above the foot, with a broad contrasting distal black-
ish brown band; the cells above usually successively somewhat smaller
or subequal, all or most bearing single antheridia more or less definitely
superposed, usually three to five in number. Antheridia long slender
colorless; the stalk-cell sometimes even longer than the venter and
