PERTHITIC FELDSPARS. 147
with relative rapidity. It seems reasonable to suppose that the two
alkalic feldspars, at least, possess, in the neighborhood of their crystal-
lization interval, a strong tendency to crystallize together in all pro-
portions on account of the close similarity in crystal structure and
volume which characterize them. The rate of the process which tends
to separate them into two types of mixed crystals, one potassic and the
other sodic, is probably a slow one, possessing relatively little energy,
much less rapid and energetic than the tendency of the two feldspars
to crystallize from the rapidly chilled and probably undercooled
magma. Under such conditions the latter tendency dominates and
the two feldspars crystallize together either as a homogeneous (so far
as can be told) crystal or as an exceedingly fine intergrowth (crypto-
perthite). Once formed in this fashion, though in a metastable con-
dition, the inertia of the solid state, doubtless especially great in
substances like these, indefinitely postpones further change in the
direction of the establishment of a true equilibrium, and the crystals
often persist as formed. The case is quite different when a longer
period of time is allowed for crystallization, as in the case of the
magmas which consolidate at relatively deeper levels or even in the
case of the groundmass of the porphyries. ^^ Here we would have
slower cooling, less undercooling, and probably also more abundant
liquid or vapor phases. The separation of the two mixed-crystal
phases can then take place with less or greater perfection according
to the perfection of the equilibrium adjustment permitted by the
rate of cooling and other conditions. The result would be either
the formation of a perthitic or microperthitic intergrowth, or, under
still more favorable conditions, of separate unorientated crystalli-
zations of the two phases.
The process of feldspar crystallization may be further considered
with the aid of a diagram representing the kind of equilibrium which
is believed to hold for these minerals. The diagram. Figure IV, is sub-
stantially that used by Vogt. The true position of the curves is of
course not known but the various points on the eutectic line and along
the base may be considered as located approximately. The positions
of the points N and M have been located in accordance with the figures
obtained for the compositions of the mixed-crystals in the present
investigation, and lie at or somewhat outside Vogt's lower estimate
(about 10% of Or.) for the corresponding points. The points i and q
23 See in this connection the"Jdescription of the^groundmass feldspars in the
Blue Hill porphyries, Op. cit.;.249 and 322.*
