PERTHITIC FELDSPARS. 151
tion lends support to the idea of a eutectie composition. It will be
evident, however, from what has just been said that the occurrence in
a rock of richly perthitic feldspars is by no means an indication that
such intergrowths are necessarily of eutectie composition, or even
very near it, as appears to have been held by some petrographers.
Mixtures of a composition like that represented by the line ii may
be supposed to result vmder certain conrHtions in the so-called anti-
perthite intergrowths, while a mixture of composition v, well to the
left of the diagram, would yield finally a mixed-crystal of the albite
type of the same composition as that with which we started.
From what has been said above it will be clear that rapid cooling,
accompanied probably by undercooling, is believed to be primarily
responsible for the development of anorthoclase, cryptoperthite and
the perthitic intergrowths generally, where the latter are relatively
rich — above something like 28 per cent Ab. Inasmuch as the rate of
cooling is dependent on the geologic position in which a magma con-
solidates, it follows that the presence of such feldspars are an indication
that the rocks containing them have consolidated relatively near or
at the surface. If this is correct it is a point of some importance.
The anorthoclase phenocrysts of many of our porphyritic rocks bear
out this contention, and geologic evidence is by no means lacking that
many occurrences of rocks characterized by the presence of richly
perthitic or cryptoperthitic feldspars have reached relatively high
levels in the earth's crust, for example, the alkaline rocks of the Chris-
tiania region and the microperthitic rocks of eastern Massachusetts,
particularly of Quincy and the Blue Hills, not to mention many other
examples that come to mind.
We also believe that microcline is the stable phase of the potassic
feldspar. The tendency to invert to microcline, like the intimately
associated tendency of the two mixed-crystals to unmix, is probably
not a strong one, and may often not find conditions favorable to its
accomplishment. The change may be suspended indefinitely and
even not occur at all, or not until the necessary energy is supplied by
long continued heat and pressure such as might result from meta-
morphic processes. That microcline is of much more common occur-
rence than is generally supposed, the writer firmly believes. It is
probably true that many students of rocks when they do not see
the characteristic "grating" structure in a potassic feldspar call it
orthoclase, overlooking the fact, if they were ever aware of it, that
microcline does not always, in fact rather frequently, does not show
this structure, that it may show only the albite twinning, or no twin-
