152 WAEREN.
ning at all. The ^^Titer has studied a number of rocks in which or-
thoclase was described as being present only to find, on careful study,
that the alleged orthoclase was really microcline.
In comparing the feldspars of the pegmatites with those of the
granites with which they are connected genetically, or of (Hfl'erent
granites, it is of course impossible, with the rather meager data now at
our command, to estimate definitely the effect of constituents other
than the feldspars which are present in the respective magmas on the
equilibrium relations existing between the feldspars. The effect of
varying pressures is also largely of unknown magnitude. In the case
of granite magmas, relatively poor in anorthite and mafic minerals,
the principle differences in chemical composition as compared with the
pegmatitic magmas which are derived from them, are generally con-
sidered to be the greater amounts of water or water vapor and other
of the more volatile constituents — mineralizers — of the pegmatitic
magmas. The presence of greater amounts of water would probably
have the effect of collecting different relative amounts of the two
feldspars in the one as compared with the other. Probably with the
greater excess of water in the pegmatitic magma would go a relatively
greater amount of the more soluble (under those conditions) feldspar
molecules. That the excess water would have any great effect in
modifying the general relations of the two feldspars during crystalliza-
tion in the pegmatites as compared with the granites, the writer very
much doubts. One effect of larger amounts of water etc. would very
probably be to facilitate any adjustment of equilibrium that might be
imminent, particularly where the adjustment had to take place in the
solid state. In the pegmatites the possible presence of more active
residual liquors in contact with the crystals might conceivably have
the effect of carrying the unmixing somewhat further in the direction
of extracting more of the more soluble phase. As this is probably the
albite, it may be, that in the pegmatitic feldspars, such as those here
studied, the microcline phase contains a somewhat lower percentage
of the albite than is the case for corresponding feldspar in the granites.
The differences in the two cases are, in the wi-iter's opinion, likely to be
rather slight at least so far as the main crystallizations of pegmatites
and granites in general are concerned. The residual liquors in all
cases would carry some feldspar in solution along with other materials,
and in special cases, perhaps considerable amounts. These liquors
might segregate centrally or otherwise, or migrate, and in any case
would finally deposite their dissolved material as separate crystalliza-
tions, distinctive in character, of albite and microcline or, under cer-
