PERTHITIC FELDSPARS. 153
tain conditions, of albite or microcline alone, perhaps of a composition
very near to that of the pure end members of the system. Such,
probably, are the crystallizations v.hich we find about the pockets or
elsewhere in certain pegmatites.
We feel therefore justified, at least for the purposes of discussion,
in assuming that the same general relations obtain between the potassic
and sodic feldspars during their crystallization in the pegmatites as
in the granites, and in looking upon the figures here obtained for the
chemical composition of the two mixed-crystal phases, fron, a study
of the pegmatitic perthites, as holding true, approximately of course,
for the granitic feldspars. Much further work must be done on the
feldspars and their rocks before the problem can in any way be looked
upon as settled, but it is believed that the theory elaborated above
may at least serve as a reasonable working basis.
Summary. — The results of a micrometric and chemical study of
six specimens of perthitic feldspars from granite pegmatites are
recorded. To these have been added the results of a similar study by
Makinen of the perthites from the granite pegmatites of Tammela,
Finland. Preliminary studies of certain other perthites are also
referred to. Taken together the feldspars studied represent widely
separated localities and quite a diversity of composition. It is believed
that they may be considered representative of the perthitic feldspars
of granite pegmatites in general.
The methods of study employed and the characteristics of the inter-
growths are briefly described. The quantitative results are collected
in three tables which show the chemical compositions of the various
feldspars studied, the relative amounts of the two mixed-crystal
phases which constitute them and the chemical composition of each
of these phases. These results and their probable precision are briefly
discussed.
The older theory that the perthitic structure is due to the introduc-
tion of albite from without into a previously formed microcline or
orthoclase crystal is discussed and held to be untenable. The more
recently proposed theory of Vogt that the potassic and soda-lime
feldspars form a broken series of mixed-crystals with a eutectic point
between them is discussed with particular reference to the alkalic
members and is held to offer a satisfactory l)asis on which to explain
their relationships so far as these can be judged from such evidence,
chemical and petrographical, as is at present available. The progress
of crystallization in mixtures of various composition is considered
with the aid of a diagram, a), for the case where a perfect and continu-
