158 DALY.
Outline of Theory.
A FIELD study in the year 1909 impressed the writer with the nar-
rowness of the coral reefs about the Hawaiian islands. In A'ievv of the
proved rapidity of coral growth, this narrowness suggested that the
reefs are geologically very young. ■"• The discovery that a considerable
glacier had left its traces on Mauna Kea, Hawaii, about 3,600 meters
above sea-level, directly indicated a possible connection between the
youthfulness of the reefs and the former climate of the archipelago.
During the northern winter the surface temperature of the Hawaiian
shore waters is but little above the minimum at which reef corals can
thrive, namely, 20° Centigrade or GS° Fahrenheit. The northern
limit of possible reef growth in these longitudes is a line only about
800 kilometers north of Hawaii and the line is still nearer the islands
to the northwest. The mean annual temperature of coastal waters
about Vancouver island is 10° C. In the Glacial period that tem-
perature was nearly 0° C. The erratic boulders and striations on the
bedrock floor of the Mauna Kea glacier appear to have an antiquity
of the same order as that shown in the traces of Pleistocene sea-level
glaciers in Washington State and British Columbia. The conclusion
seems inevitable that corals could not thrive during the Glacial period
anywhere in the Hawaiian group. Hence, the existing reefs must
have been planted in the course of late Glacial or post-Glacial time,
thus explaining their youthfulness.
The principle involved should ob\iously be tested by reference to
the facts known concerning the rest of the world's coral reefs. The
writer's efi'ort to do this led to a somewhat elaliorate hypothesis
covering the reef problem in general. After all of its essential ele-
ments had been recognized, the writer found that some of them had
already been described in published form. Yet no one had assembled
all necessary features of the explanation and a brief statement of the
whole, as then worked out, was published in 1910.^ The object of
1 Throughout this paper the expression "coral reef" signifies the usual
complex of skeletal and shell growths, of which the frame-work is true coral
in situ, though a large part may be composed of nullipore or other algal mate-
rial, moUuscan or other debris of littoral species, shells of the plankton, and
chemically precipitated carbonates of calcium and magnesium. The corals
themselves may make up less than one-half of a reef, yet its existence and
increase depend on the successful growth of these animals in spite of a constant
battle with the surf.
2 R. A. Daly, Amer. Jour, of Science, 30, 297-308 (1910); cf. Science Con-
spectus, pub. by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1, 120-123 (1911).
