NEW IN DO-MALAYAN LABOULBENIALES O
neck; the venter without basal cells and consisting of two antheridial
cells which discharge by rather long canals into the cavity of the neck,
which is straight or curved and about as long as the venter. Total
length, including terminal appendage-cell (12-15 /i) and foot (25 /x),
SO-9-i XSfx. Antheridia, including stalk-cell, about 40 X 5 ix.
Female it^dividual. Amber-brown, falcate and often slightly sig-
moid, the cells thick-walled. Receptacle not distinguished from the
primary appendage with which it is continuous; the axis consisting
of usually twenty-five superposed cells, six of which belong to the
receptacle proper; a basal cell considerably longer than broad, hya-
line below a broad partly diagonal Ijlackish band; the other five cells
very thick-walled with small rounded lumen, especially the lower four,
the lowest of which produces a short simple rather closely septate
pale sterile appendage which, bending beside the base of the perithe-
cium above it, is more or less appressed against the receptacle and
extends just above the base of the primary appendage, its origin be-
coming obscured by displacement, so that it appears to arise from the
basal cell of the receptacle ; three of the cells above it usually producing
perithecia. Primary appendage simple, paler distally and tapering
to a blunt termination, the cells squarish or slightly longer than broad.
Perithecia two to normally three, arising from successive cells in a
slightly oblique series, almost sessile, erect; the very short stalk-
portion bent al>ruptly upward; the main body asymmetrical, slightly
broader distally, the inner margin convex, the outer concave, tapering
rather abruptly to the tip which is subtended by a slight elevation on
the inner side; the rounded apex of its slightly curved distal portion
bent outward. Perithecia 85-100 X 20-24 m- Spores, female, IS X
3 iJL. Total length to tip of primary appendage 350-390 jj.. Re-
ceptacle 80 X 20 fx, face view X 30 /x. Secondary appendage 45-70 /x.
On the antennae of Gryllus mitratus Burm. Samarang, Java.
The many peculiarities of this species, which grows appressed on
the antennae of its host, need hardly be pointed out. The male
individual is of special interest, since its antheridium is of a type more
simple than is usual in this genus; the antheridial cells, of which there
appear to be never more than two, cutting off no basal cell, so that
there are present only a long stalk cell, two antheridial cells and the
neck for discharge of sperm-cells. The sixth cell of the receptacle
in the female individual appears to be the basal cell of the primary
appendage, which in other species is often separated from the append-
age by a darkened septum. The single secondary appendage is so
small and inconspicuous that it may be readily overlooked.
