162 DALY.
of some of the existing reefs. Nevertheless, the bathometrie relation
of platform to reef is normally so constant in all three oceans that a
general explanation of reefs in terms of crustal movements seems im-
possible. In other words, the coral-reef problem is really the problem
of the platform represented in each of the many submarine shelves and
lagoon floors of the coral seas. Most of the reef platforms, like many
banks situated outside the coral seas, have such forms, dimensions,
and relations to the sea-level that they appear to have originated
during a long period of nearly perfect stability for the general ocean
floor. That is a conclusion forced on the writer by a close study of the
marine charts. Its validity is a matter quite independent of the
Glacial-control theory. Local uplifts and sinkings of the sea-bottom
have certainly taken place, at intervals during past geological time,
but submarine topography seems impossible of explanation without
assuming crustal quiet beneath most of the deep sea during at least
the later-Tertiary and Quaternary periods. The new theory, there-
fore, is based on the necessity of assuming general crustal stability
in the coral-sea areas during the formation of the existing reefs and
platform surfaces. Crustal uplift or subsidence must also be assumed
as affecting local areas, like the southwest Pacific, within the same
time interval, but these phenomena should not be allowed to obscure
the main truth which is legible in the bathometry of the tropical seas.
Finally, one cannot doubt that general sea-level has been aftected
by crustal movements during post-Pliocene time. Recent uplifts
have been demonstrated along great stretches of the continental shores.
So far as these have not been matched by crustal downwarps beneath
the ocean, such uplifts have tended to raise the surface of the ocean
everywhere. Hence, post-Glacial time may have witnessed a positive
shift of sea-level through a cause that has nothing directly to do with
the mere addition of water to the ocean by the melting of ice-caps.
A Recent rise of sea-level to the extent of a few meters, owing to post-
Glacial warping of the earth's crust, is quite credible. Some of the
submergence so conspicuous in the coral archipelagoes may therefore
be due to two distinct causes, both rendering unsafe the drowned-
valley criterion used by Dana in his advocacy of the subsidence theory.
Earlier Statements of Elements of the Theory.
Many authors, including Adhemar, Croll, Sir William Thomson
(Lord Kelvin), Pratt, Heath, Upham, Penck, Hergesell, and Wood-
ward, have shown the considerable deformation which must be pro-
