164 DALY.
the Pleistocene ice-caps, and that the ice attracted the remaining sea
water, he wrote: " Such a rise of the sea, increasing in amount at high
latitudes, is attested b}' the modified drift of both America and Europe;
and coral islands afford proof of the corresponding depression of the
ocean, succeeded by a gradual elevation to its present height, over large
areas within the tropics. The coral islands of the tropics are witnesses
of a depression of the sea, amounting to 3,000 feet or perhaps much
more at the equator, while different proof shows that at the mouths of
the Mississippi, Ganges, and Po rivers it was at least 400 feet. If we
reflect upon the widespread changes of sea-level that marked the
glacial period, occurring only where they would be produced by taking
water from the sea to form the ice-sheets, and by gravitation through
their influence, and if we compare these recent simultaneous changes
with the general stability of the continents, it seems reasonable to
attribute them to movements of the sea rather than of the land." ^
Apparently without knowledge of the writings of Belt and Upham,
Penck threw out his suggestion in the following form (translated) :
" The causes of the general rise of sea-level in the latest geological time
might perhaps be connected with these climatic changes which the
earth underwent in the Glacial period. If, during that time, northern
Europe, northern North America, and the Antarctic regions were
simultaneously glaciated, a considerable mass of water must have
been removed from the ocean, and, if the thickness of the ice be
assumed as 1,000 meters, the sea-level must have been 150 meters
below its present position. However, it is conceivable that, in conse-
quence of the considerable cooling, the sea bottom sank during the
Glacial period, and since rose again, so that the size of the ocean basins
as a whole was not lessened. Whatever explanation is shown in the
future to be correct, it cannot be doubted that with a lowering of the
sea-level the zone of reef -building must also sink; hence that banks,
on which the corals formerly could not live, then became accessible
to those animals and could be built up into atolls. Further, with a
general lowering of the sea, many banks must become subject to wave
abrasion, which truncated them unless they were protected by growing
reefs. Thus the lowering of sea-level in the coral-reef region led to the
transformation of banks into islands and elsewhere to a further cutting-
away of the banks. In this way the fact is explained that the great
majority of the oceanic islands are found in the coral-reef region, while
8 W. Upham, Geology of New Hampshire, Concord, 3, Part 3, p. 18 and
329 (1878).
