GLACIAL-CONTROL THEORY OF CORAL REEFS. 165
outside that zone, submarine platforms (Pfeiler), on which atolls
could originate, are rather rare." ^
It was impossible that the ideas of Belt and Upham could be liter-
ally accepted, because each implied that the late-Glacial swelling of
the tropical seas is to be measured in thousands of feet vertically, to
match the Darwin-Dana estimates of shifts of level in the coral seas.
Geologists might well be sceptical that the formation of the Pleisto-
cene ice-caps could produce an equatorial drop in sea-level of 3,000
feet, or more. At the present time even the von Drygalski-Penck
estimate of 150 meters seems excessive. It will be noted that Penck
offered his suggestion with reserve and he apparently rejected it
finally himself, as shown b}^ his later, complete acceptance of Darwin's
theory, in a Vienna lecture which reviewed the various coral-reef
theories but quite failed to mention Glacial controls. ^°
So far, the Avi-iter has found no earlier statement of the second,
fundamental control of the Glacial climate, namely, that on the
distribution of the corals which throve during the Pleistocene. The
killing or great impoverishment of the reef-coral fauna, except in
small sea areas protected from the comparatively cold water of the
open ocean, is believed to be as essential a featiu'e of the Glacial-
control theory as the shift of sea-level.
The writer's 1910 paper was a preliminary note; partly on account
of its brevity, the first announcement of the theory has been mis-
understood in some particulars. Additional, prolonged study of
ocean charts has led to tlie appreciation of many facts, especially
quantitative data, which were unknown to the writer when the
Hawaiian reef problem was undertaken. These facts seem powerfully
to support the new theory and, at the same time, to represent strong
objections to the subsidence theory of Darwin and Dana. Both
theories postulate a recent rise of sea-level within the tropics, but they
are utterly contrasted in their meaning for dynamical geology in
general. This paper therefore offers a needed fuller statement of the
Glacial controls, as well as an analysis of quantitative elements im-
plied in the older theory of submergence.
9 A. Penck, Morphologic der Erdoberfliiche, Stuttgart, 2, 660 (1894).
10 A. Penck, Vortrage d. Verein zur Verbreitung naturwiss. Kenntnisse in
Wien, 36 Jahrgang, Heft 1.3, (1896).
