THAXTER.
Dimeromyces brachiatus nov. sp.
Male individual. Receptacle hyaline, subtriangiilar above its
stalk-like base, the lumen of which is nearly or completely obliterated;
consisting of from fi^'e to seven cells obliquely superposed, those
between the basal and terminal cells much flattened and each asso-
ciated with a corresponding simple secondary appendage : the terminal
cell larger, somewhat rounded distally, bearing the primary appendage
distally and the single antheridium laterally. Primary appendage
simple, rather short, hardly tapering, with blunt rounded apex, and
consisting of a small almost square or slightly flattened basal cell,
followed by one to two flattened yellowish browTi cells distinguished
by dark septa; the rest of the appendage a single elongate cell. wSec-
ondary appendages superposed in a single series, somewhat divergent
and mostly in contact throughout; similar to the primary appendage,
the basal cell large, the flattened suffused cells one to three in number.
Antheridium solitary, arising just above the base of the uppermost
secondary appendage, its basal or stalk-cell somewhat larger than that
of the latter, subtriangular; the venter and neck relatively short,
somewhat curved; the antheridial cells about eight in number, the
basal cells clearly defined, the neck rather abruptly distinguished, but
rather short and strongly bent. Receptacle 46 X 12 ix. Foot 18 /x.
Appendages 28 X 4 ju. Antheridivmi 27 X 9 /x.
Female individual. Hyaline or faintly yellowish. Receptacle
similar to that of the male, consisting of eight to nine cells; the termi-
nal one small, triangular, bearing the primary appendage terminally;
the remaining cells above the basal cell bearing either secondary
appendages, perithecia, or secondary appendiculate axes: the terminal
cell always bearing a secondary axis laterally, the subterminal giving
rise to the first perithecium and the cell next below to a secondary
appendage, while the remaining cells may produce either of these
structures without regularity. Primary and secondary appendages
similar to those of the male, but smaller. Secondary axes greatly
elongated, suberect, slightly flexed, of about the same diameter
throughout, consisting of a single series of a hundred cells more or less
very thick walled, arranged in vertical pairs, the successive pairs
slightly displaced from right to left; the upper cell of each pair asso-
ciated distally and externally with a snuill simple, closely appressed
appendage similar in all respects to the secondary appendages of the
male, and alternating right and left from successive pairs. Perithecia
