NEW INDO-MALAYAN LABOULBENIALES. /
originating from a basal cell like that which subtends the secondary
axes; the first always arising from the sjibterminal cell of the recepta-
cle, others rarely arising from cells lower down; short-clavate, sub-
symmetrical, broader distally, tapering to the rather small but
abruptly broader apex; the lips more or less distinctly and broadly
papillate. Perithecia 90-120 X 15-20 ix, its basal cell 12 X 8 m-
Receptacle 50-00 X 20 m; foot 20 m- Primary and secondary ap-
pendages 18-22 X 4 ^i. Secondary axes up to 580 X 12 n, their
appendages 20-28 X 4 /x.
On the elytra of Hetcrophaga sp. nov. No. 2107, Peradeniya,
Ceylon.
This remarkable species is clearly separated from all other known
forms by its sterile and peculiarly appendiculate secondary axes. The
host, which has been kindly examined for me by Mr. Champion,
is said ])y him to be a new species near H. niiiduJa Motsch.
Dimeromyces Petchi nov. sp.
Male individual. Receptacle hyaline, siibtriangular, or sometimes
more elongate, consisting of from seven to ten superposed cells; the
basal cell short and triangular, or sometimes somewhat elongate;
the rest obliquely superposed, flattened, each giA'ing rise to an antheri-
dium ; the series terminated by the basal cell of the primary appendage
which is subtriangular and not otherwise distinguished from the cells
below. Primary appendage simple, its subbasal cell small, more or
less suffused, and abruptly distinguished from the basal cell by a
blackened septum, the cell above it slightly larger, but little suffused,
and followed by the more elongate two-celled portion, the walls of
which are distally swollen and may become more or less disorganized.
Secondary appendages absent. Antheridia arising in a single row,
more or less displaced by crowding, so that the series may appear
double: short and stout, the stalk-cell usually slightly longer than
broad, and protruding somewhat upward between the two antheridial
cells from which no basal cells are separated; the venter not clearly
distinguished from the stalk; the neck deeply blackened, contrasting;
the efferent tube short, broad, truncate, slightly tapering, quite
hyaline, diverging subterminally from the black neck at an angle of
from 45° to 90°. Receptacle, inclufling the small foot and the basal
cell of the primary appendage, 45-80 X 15-20 fx. Primary appendage
45 X 5.5 n near base. Antheridia about 28 X 9 ^t.
