208 DALY.
and others, the Recent elevation of many of the Lau islands in the Fiji
group has been established. The main Fiji islands and some of their
neighbors are not reported to show evidence of general uplift as late
as post-Pliocene. Such islands, nearly or quite stable in recent
time, are Viti Levu (north and east sides), Vanua Levu, Mbengha
(Fig. 32), Ngau, Wakaya, Makongai, Thikombia, Taviuni, lambu,
Namuku, Vanua Mblavau, and the Argo cluster. All of these have
well defined, coral-crowned shelves at depths averaging about 30
fathoms or 55 m. below sea-level. The contrast with the many
recently uplifted islands of the same archipelago, named in Table
III, is striking.
Differential movements are recorded at Neu-Lauenburg (Dahl),
Buka (Frederici and Sapper), Uvea of the Loyalty group (Davis.
See Fig. 30), Vavau (Lister. See Fig. 29), Timor (Molengraaff), and
the islands off California (Lawson and W. S. T. Smith). Many other
cases must be represented in the table but have not been definitely
described. Li the Vavau group Lister states that the recent movement
has been upward on the north and downward on the south. The
present submarine topography is therefore significant. A wide shelf,
locally covered with 70 fathoms (128 m.), or more, of water has been
found to the south of the group; while a marked bench is absent on
the north (Fig. 29).
Off the California coast, San Clemente island, raised in Post-
Pliocene time, has a magnificent series of elevated benches but lacks
an encircling submarine shelf. The neighboring island of Santa
Catalina, contemporaneously sunken, has a marked shelf, from L5 to
6.5 km. wide and covered with water reaching 65 fathoms (119 m.)
in depth.^^
Inspection of the charts shows oceanic islands outside of the coral
seas to have submarine shelves at depths of from 45 m. to 80 m., if
those islands have not undergone Recent crustal movement. The
presence or absence of such a shelf may, indeed, afford a criterion of
Recent uplift. The fact that the Falkland islands have a broad shelf
at 55-90 m. suggests that Halle is right in discrediting post-Glacial
elevation for that region. ■*"
Incomplete as it is, the evidence so far published seems to warrant
the following statements, (a) The undisturbed tropical islands have
39 A. C. Lawson, Bull. Dep. Geol., Univ. California, 1, 128 (1893); W. S. T.
Smith, ibid., 2, 179 (1900\ and 18th Ann. Rep., U. S. Geol. Survey, Part 2.
p. 46.5 (1898).
40 T. G. Halle, Bull. Geol. Inst.. Univ. Uppsala, 11, 222 (1912).
