GLACIAL-CONTROL THEORY OF CORAL REEFS. 215
fended by a living bulwark. The surviving corals would reoceupy
the abraded surface as fast as possible, making new increments, which
in their turn would be subject to later successful attacks by the waves.
This hypothesis is supported by the character and relative uni-
formity of the depths on the rim. Depths of from 7 m. to 20 m. are
exactly of the order expected under the conditions. Much of the sand
and mud formed in the partial destruction of the reef must be thrown
into the lagoon, and the broad terrace, adjoining the inside of the
reef-rim and covered with about 30 m. of water, appears to have been
thus formed.
The Pitt, Speakers, and Saya de Malha banks are under nearly the
same climatic conditions as the Great Chagos. The China Sea and
the open ocean washing the banks north of Fiji (named in the foregoing
table), are famous for destructive typhoons. It seems reasonable to
explain the submerged rims of all these crowned banks in the same
way. (Figs. 34 A and 34B.)
However, the correctness of the hypothesis now offered is not fully
established until the normal, surface reefs of the Chagos archipelago
(e. g., Diego Garcia) and of the F'iji group can be explained. The prob-
lem does not now seem to be capable of full solution. Factors other
than those just enumerated are important and cannot yet be valued
properly. Among them are: the prevailing, as contrasted with the oc-
casional, weather conditions ; the kinds and numbers of reef corals at
work in the respective seas ; the protection exerted by central islands
in the case of the Pacific barrier reefs ; the fetch of the hurricane waves ;
and the size of the platforms involved. The last-mentioned feature
is doubtless quite important, since the density of the muddy clouds
stirred up by waves is directly proportioned to the width of the plat-
form, as measured along the line in which the waves are running.
The Maldi^•es are occasionally visited by hurricanes, coming from
the Bay of Bengal. However, such storms are already much weakened
by their passage across India or Ceylon, and the heavy swell generated
in the l)ay itself can have little effect on the Maldive islands. Hence
there is good reason for the abundance of flourishing surface reefs in
this archipelago, though it lies so near the Chagos group. '*^
47 C. Darwin (Coral Reefs, London, 3rd ed., p. 50 (1889)) quoted Captain
Moresby's observation that the southern atolls of the Maldives are more
constantly exposed to a heavy surf than are the northern atolls. The most
southerly of all, Addu, though only 14 km. long, has a maximum lagoon depth
of about 70 m., and is thus much deeper than the other small Maldive atolls.
Darwin remarks: " I can assign no adequate cause for this difference of depth "
(page 47 of his book). Is it in part due to a more frequent killing of the Addu
€orals, in post-Glacial time, by the stirring of lag-oon sediments?
