THAXTER.
Female individual. Receptacle hyaline, usually turned so that it is
viewed edgewise, somewhat broader opposite the lower secondary
appendage, consisting of a longer basal cell and three obliquely super-
posed flattened cells terminated liy the undifferentiated basal cell of
the primary appendage ; which is small and not otherwise distinguished
from the cells below it; the cell above it is distinguished by a black
septum, but is not deeply suffused, and is in general like that of the
male, though sometimes smaller. A single secondary appendage
arising from the subbasal cell of the receptacle, similar to the primary,
and separated from its basal cell by a contrasting black septum.
Perithecium usually arising from the subterminal cell, of the receptacle,
rarely from the terminal, above the secondary appendage; erect or
l)ent sidewise at the base, sessile or the stalk very short, the ascus-
apparatus filling the whole cavity; asymmetrical, transparent, pale
smoky brown, distally rounded outward on one side below the rather
abruptly distinguished tip, the base of which is more deeply suffused
with blackish ; forming a more or less definite transverse black hand,
above which it is quite hyaline except for a deep blackish suffusion just
below the hyaline apex; which is rounded, slightly asymmetrical and
bent. Spores 30 X 4 /x. Perithecia 75 X 20-24 ^t. Receptacle
55-65 X 25 fx. Appendages about 40-45 X 7-S m- Total length to
tip of perithecium 120-135 fx.
On the right inferior posterior surface of the prothorax of a small
carabid allied to Tachjs, Peradeniya, Ceylon. No. 2093b, and
Samarang, Java, No. 20Slc. Known also from Borneo and the
Philippines.
This species is not nearly allied to any known form. The antheridia
are unusually numerous and quite unique in form and appearance
owing to the deeply blackened neck and abruptly bent hyaline dis-
charge tube. I have taken the liberty of naming this very distinct
form for Mr. T. Petch, whose admirable work on the fungi of Ceylon
is well known to all mycologists and to whom I am indebted for all
the Ceylon species herewith described.
Dimeromyces appressus nov. sp.
Male individual. Receptacle lying nearly flat on the substratmn,
the antheridium toward the female; two-celled, the basal cell suffused,
broader than long, extending outward beneath the antheridium, the
base of which rests on it; subl)asal cell concolorous, subtriangular,
