GLACIAL-CONTROL THEORY OF CORAL REEFS. 217
A number of large banks in the coral seas have either no projecting
reef rims at all or else have merely local raised patches of coral on
their edges. Examples are here listed (Table V).
TABLE V.
Rimless Banks
in
the Coral Seas.
Length
Km.
Extreme Maximum
breadth depth
Km. M.
A verage
depth
M.
Indian Ocean
Seychelles (Fig. 18) 300
175 120
55-65
Amirante 170
55 60
4.5-50
Basses de Pedro or 110
24 77
45-55
Padua (Fig. 37)
China Sea
Prince Consort 25
13 81
64-72
These cases are more difficult of explanation. The Seychelles bank,
for example, does not now lie in the path of frequent hurricanes, and,
so far as the -^Titer can find records, the Seychelles area has moderate
weather the year around.*^ Similarly, part of the Laccadive plat-
forms are provided with atoll reefs reaching the surface, while others
are still flat banks lacking peripheral reef crowns. It is possible that
the rimless banks not now lying in hurricane paths have been affected
by hurricanes during some earlier fraction of post-Glacial time, as the
climatic zones of the Pleistocene slowly shifted to their present posi-
tion.
The unrimmed banks above listed, as well as others within the
tropics, have average depths of just the same order as those found on
many banks outside of the coral seas, e. g., the Tanner, Cortes, and
Osborn banks off California. As already noted, such accordance
finds no systematic place among the consequences of the subsidence
theory, but is expressly demanded by the Glacial-control theory, if
these intertropical banks have been little modified by post-Glacial
growth of coral, and if sea-level has undergone little change since the
48 A. Voeltzkow (Geog. Anzeiger, Jahrg., Heft 1, p. 5 (1907)) states that,
so far as he saw during his extensive travels, the whole western part of the
Indian ocean is remarkably devoid of strong reefs composed chiefly of living
corals, though limestones enclosing isolated corals do form banks. He speaks
of the local patches of growing corals ("Korallengarten") as secondary forma-
tions, having no close relation (" ohne jede nahere Beziehung") to the platforms
on which they rest.
