218 DALY.
late Pleistocene. That the depths are relatively great as compared
with most lagoon depths, is at once largely explained by the failure of
continuous reef growth, on which the post-Glacial aggradation of the
platforms has so much depended.
Among the Solomon islands, Guppy found that the reefs either
reached the surface or had 7 m. to 18 m. of water upon them. Reefs
of intermediate depth were not found. ^^ His generalization suggests
the necessity of a rather definite critical strength which must be sur-
passed if a reef is to keep its summit at sea-level. If its power of
resistance to the waves falls below that critical point, the top of the
reef is kept down to levels ( — 7 to — 25 m.), where the abrading surf can
no longer conquer in the struggle with living coral and its allies. The
exact causes for varying success in the ceaseless combat are here again
not determined, and evidently mud-control is only one of many
factors, which are quantitatively varying from place to place in the
oceanic area.
Nevertheless, the clear possibility that mud-control really explains
the Great Chagos -and similar "drowned" atolls, seriously affects
what Dana described as " one of the best demonstrations of the sub-
sidence theory."
Volumes of the Existing Reefs. According to the new theory, the
living coral reefs rest on platforms prepared in the Glacial period, and
thus, in general, rest on pre-Glacial sediments or volcanic rocks. The
greatest thickness possible for these reefs is about 110 m., assuming an
extreme amount, 75 m., for the rise of post-Glacial sea-level within the
tropics. Usually the thickness would be less.
Once more the theory can be tested quantitatively. The boring
at Funafuti showed massive coral to persist to a depth of about 46 m.
Below that depth the log of the boring suggests that it passed through
talus material all the way to the bottom, at a depth of 340 m. This
conclusion was reached by the writer after a careful study of the
Funafuti report, issued by the Royal Society of London; a subsequent
inspection of a duplicate set of the core material has tended to confirm
the opinion. Unfortunately, the hole bored in the lagoon at Funafuti
was not deep enough to decide the nature of the rock beneath the
lagoon detritus. As shown in a later section (page 247), the main bore
at F'unafuti, useful as it has been in clearing up many important points,
was badly located for its primary purpose of testing the Darwin-Dana
theory. A truly valuable test can be made by boring on a coral islet,
49 H. B. Guppy, Proe. Roy. Soc. Edinburgh, 13, 867 (ISSti).
