GLACIAL-CONTROL THEORY OF CORAL REEFS. 221
assumed by the present writer for the lowering of tropical sea-level.
There is no evidence of a much greater depression of Labrador or
Scandinavia during the Pleistocene. It is, further, improbable that
the depression was compensated only by uplift of the sea bottom.
If the repeated assertion that an ice-cap cannot be more than 1,600
feet (488 m.) thick were true, the foregoing statement of the Glacial-
control theory would need essential changes. The reasoning on which
the assertion is based, is theoretically faulty, and its conclusion impossi-
ble for any one who has seriously reflected on the plain facts of glacia-
tion either in the Canadian Cordillera or in the Laurentian-New
England region of the east. Martin's recent proofs that in 1892 the
Muir glacier had a local thickness of 750 m. and that in 1894 the
Grand Pacific glacier was locally more than 900 m. thick, are good
grounds for admitting the possibility of ice-caps which are 1,000 m.
or more in thickness.
Restriction of Reef Corals by Pleistocene Cold. It has been doubted
that the reduction of ocean temperature was sufficient to kill or
greatly weaken the corals on most of the reefs. Until the last year or
two, practically all supporters of the Darwin-Dana theory neglected
to discuss this point, and assumed a tropical-sea temperature con-
tinuously favorable for coral growth. Dana held that the coral-reef
period "probably covered the whole of the Quaternary." ^^ The
assumption is clearly unwarranted by the facts now known concerning
Pleistocene climate, north and south of the equator. The burden of
proof is really on those who hold that the winter sea temperature of
the coral-reef areas was not 5° to 10° C. lower during the Glacial
period than it is now.
General Crnstal Stability in the Coral-sea Areas. Upholders of the
subsidence theory will naturally question that the ocean floor has been
undisturbed for a time long enough for the preparation of the reef
platforms by erosion and deposition. According to the new theory,
most of this work was done in pre-Glacial time. The work demands
much of the later Tertiary, as well as the Pleistocene period, and thus,
during several million years, the relation of sea bottom and sea surface
was not significantly changed. However, such crustal stability is
necessarily postulated only for the parts of the coral-sea areas where
broad platforms, about 75 m. below sea-level, are now found. For
those areas the assumption of prolonged crustal stability, except for
minute oscillations, seems absolutely unescapable. All theories of
53 J. D. Dana, Amer. Jour. Science, 30, 169 (1885).
