GLACIAL-CONTROL THEORY OF CORAL REEFS. 223
Sea-cut Platforms and Drowned Valleys Outside the Coral Seas. The
Glacial-control theory implies a lowered wave-base and a lowered
base-level for rivers during much of the Pleistocene period. The
objection has been offered that the expected topographic effects are
not visible in extra-tropical regions. A reply to the objection is to be
found in the world's maps and charts. More than twenty years ago,
Penck recognized the abundance of drowned stream valleys along
coasts which have not been glaciated or uplifted in Recent time. He
referred this widespread phenomenon to a general rise of sea-level
and found the cause of the rise in the melting of Pleistocene ice, as
several other authors had stated before him. To the same cause he
attributed the development of the "Flachsee," which rims the conti-
nents and larger islands.^* The general failure of geologists to follow
Penck's lead seems to be due to over-emphasis on crustal subsidence
as a cause of positive movements of sea-level along shore lines. In
many modern works no other condition for positive movements is even
mentioned. Examples are plentiful in the state survey and other
papers dealing with the Pleistocene and Recent geology of the Atlantic
States south of New York.
The many buried rock-channels of the Thames, Cam, Tawe, Neathe,
Wye, Severn, Avon, Dart, Towy, and other rivers in England and
Wales, like those found beneath the estuary muds at Milford Haven,
Plymouth, and Falmouth, have depths of the order required, if these
channels were cut during the Pleistocene time of lowered sea-level. ^^
The Recent submergence of the Dogger bank in the North Sea has
been correlated with the drowning of the British valleys. ^^ Other
cases of Recent drowning to the same moderate degree are abun-
dantly described in the literature concerning the Atlantic coast from
Maryland southward. ^^ Erosion while the level of the Gulf of
Mexico was Glacially low^ered, may well account even for the buried
channel of the lower Mississippi.^^ To turn to the other side of the
world, Andrews and others state that the New South Wales coast
54 A. Penck, Morphologie der Erdoberflache, Stuttgart, 2, 580, 658-660
(1894).
55 W. Whitaker, Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc, 46, 333 (1890); T. Codrington,
ibid., 54, 251 (1898), and 58, 35 (1902).
56 A. S. Kennard, in discussion of J. W. Stather's paper, Quart, Jour. Geol.
Soc. 68, 327 (1912).
57 See particularly G. B. Shattuck's volume on the Pleistocene and Pliocene
deposits of Maryland, published by the Maryland Geological Survey (1906).
58 See J. Leconte, Elements of Geology, New York, p. 558 (1892).
