224 DALY.
shows a positive shift of level to the extent of about 60 m., since the
Tertiary.^^
In fact, the more carefully existing coast lines are studied, the more
apparent is the correctness of Penck's generalization and the more
unavoidable is the hypothesis that most of the world's drowned valleys
were submerged because of a Recent, general rising of the ocean's
surface.
Drowned Valleys of the Coral Islands. Many volcanic islands sur-
rounded by barrier reefs have partially drowned erosion valleys.
Dana regarded such valleys as proofs of crustal subsidence and Davis
has adopted the same view. Some of the island embayments may be
correctly explained in this way. For example, New Caledonia and
the Fiji archipelago are generally regarded as located in a region of
continental fragmentation. During the Tertiary period the eastern
part of the Australasian continent was much faulted and otherwise
deformed; the already dissected region sank below the sea and many
valley bottoms became covered with water, scores or hundreds of
meters in depth. Such submerged portions of the valleys were par-
tially filled with detritus and shelly material. In some instances,
abundance of mud doubtless prevented the sealing of the bays by
coral growths. The outer stretches of these bays were thus subject
to aggradation by waves coming in directly from deep water. The
aggraded parts of the l)ays would have depths of from 20 m. to 50 m.
below the sea-level of that time. Very slight additional erosion during
the Glacial period, when sea-level was lowered, would be necessary
to account for present depths below sea-level. Farther up the bays,
the weak materials of the Tertiary deltas were attacked by the Pleis-
tocene waves and the sediment thus stirred was dragged out into deep
water by currents, both tidal and wind-driven.
Many of the Fijian and other islands have been uplifted since the
time of continental fragmentation; their Tertiary drowned valleys
were similarly subject to cleaning-out by marine action during the
Glacial period.
Drowning of the resurrected valleys is a final, expected result of the
late-Glacial rise of sea-level. (See also page 227.)
However, a similar explanation cannot be admitted for most of
the coral archipelagoes. These lie outside of the Fiji-New Caledonia
59 E. C. Andrews, Proc. Linn. Soc. New South Wales, Part 3, p. 786 (1903);
C. A. Siissmilch, An Introduction to the Geology of New South Wales, Sydney,
p. 153 (1911).
