GLACIAL-CONTROL THEORY OF CORAL REEFS. 225
area, where evidences of crustal uneasiness during the later stages of
the Cenozoic are independent of the drowned-valley criterion.
As shown by the charts, island embayments of the class here con-
sidered have everywhere depths no greater than those anticipated if
the bays are due to subaerial erosion during the Pleistocene time of
lowered sea-level. In spite of aggradation by waves and currents,
it seems inevitable that a few of the larger valleys should have greater
depths, if their drowning were caused by crustal sinking in the Recent
period. The failure of these greater depths tends from the first to
weaken Dana's criterion.
According to the subsidence theory, the still unsubmerged portions
of the valleys should be of the one-cycle type, unless post-Glacial
sinking were too slow for the complete submergence of the sides of the
inner valleys which were excavated below the Tertiary floors because
of the lowering of base-level in the Glacial period. According to the
Glacial-control theory, the drowned valleys in general should be of the
two-cycle type, or should have been of that type at some stage since
the first climax of glaciation.
In attempting to test the two theories by the use of this principle,
it must be remembered that in volcanic islands a broad erosion valley
is not necessarily as old as an equally broad valley cut in non-volcanic
rocks. Observers in the Hawaiian islands, for example, cannot fail
to be impressed with the breadth, as well as depth, of obviously youth-
ful valleys cut in the volcanic formations. An abundant development
of amphitheatres and broad troughs is an early result of subaerial
attack on the typical volcanic island. The causes for such abnormal
physiographic development are not wholly understood. One of them
may well be a special tendency to caving or landsliding along the walls
of young valleys cut in volcanic masses. The latter are characteristi-
cally interrupted by zones of weak ash-beds or weak scoriaceous phases
of the lava flows — layers liable to water-soaking, with consequent
danger of landslides. A second cause for rapid slumping is found
in the unusual prevalence of vertical joints in massive lavas. Widen-
ing of the Pleistocene gorges cut in the central islands may therefore
be more pronounced than in the case of gorges simultaneously cut in
continental rocks. Whatever be the reasons, valley-making in vol-
canic islands gives results somewhat different from those usual in
typical areas of the continents. The physiographic processes operat-
ing on the oceanic volcanoes certainly need thorough study. At least
until that is accomplished, it is not advisable to apply the continental
chronometer to the islands. There, many broad valleys seem to be
