226 DALY.
young valleys ; a relatively broad bay may not be a drowned " mature "
valley, if by that term is meant a valley of great absolute age. The
point specially worthy of note is that one can not, in these cases,
safely locate the original bottom of each drowned valley at the inter-
section of the visible valley slopes, simply prolonged without essential
change of angle to the horizontal plane.
When the sea-level of the coral seas fell, during the first Glacial
climax, the floors of the broader stream valleys were trenched by the
now revived streams. An "edge," "shoulder," or break of slope was
then formed where the Tertiary floor met the top of the incised
Pleistocene trench. Assuming no crustal movement, this "edge"
was a few meters higher than the present sea-level, and at first sight
it seems necessary to expect the break of slope to be visible to-day.
The failure to find such valley-in-valley remnants in the present topog-
raphy of certain Pacific islands has led Davis to doubt the Glacial-
control theory.
Yet, if the inner valley were essentially completed during the early,
Kansan stage of glaciation (probably the time of maximum ice in
North America at least), it is unlikely that the "edge" would still be
generally, if at all, preserved. Post-Kansan time has been long enough
for the mature dissection of the Kansan drift. The rock-material
forming the "edges" of inner valleys must have been somewhat weak-
ened by weathering; otherwise no "edge" would have been devel-
oped, since the widening of such valleys depends on the preliminary
weathering of the rocks in the valley sides. Post-Kansan time, fav-
ored by the rapid rock-decay and heavy rains characteristic of the
tropics, seems long enough to have largely or quite obliterated such
minute features as these valley-in-valley " edges."
Upstream, each revived river or creek must have speedily cut a
distinct, narrow gorge in the floor of the Tertiary valley, just as the
rivers of England and many other countries have cut young gorges
during the Pleistocene. Those gorges should still exist, but, in general,
they must be largely filled with post-Glacial alluvium and be thus
invisible at the present surface.
That the Glacial period was long enough for the excavation of inner
valleys 50 or 60 m. deep, is not an extravagant assumption. If the
Antarctic ice-cap, the last surviving one of great size, was also the
first to form, the axial parts of the valley floors of the islands, except
the lower stretches now submerged, have suft'ered subaerial erosion
during a period longer than all Kansan and later time.
Reviewing the criterion, it appears, first, that some bays of central
