GLACIAL-CONTROL THEORY OF CORAL REEFS. 227
islands in the western Pacific are explained by the sinking of those
islands. However, the dating of that subsidence is not yet established,
and the actual bays may be due to the Pleistocene cleaning-out of
unconsolidated sediments which had been deposited in valleys,
drowned during the Tertiary fragmentation of the Australasiatic
continent. Secondly, the Glacial period was long enough for some
further deepening of the Tertiary valleys by subaerial erosion. Well
marked "edges" of the resulting valley-in-valley topography should
not appear generally in the central islands of the present day, if the
" edges " were formed early in the Glacial period. Thirdly, the narrow
rock gorges cut at the heads of the bays should be more or less com-
pletely covered by post-Glacial alluvium.
The drowning of stream valleys is not the only cause for embay-
ments. In each case it must be determined whether the bay is due to
irregular accumulation of volcanic products, to faulting, to volcanic
explosion, or to erosion. In many instances the bays are clearly
en axe with valleys cut by streams and are so located because of pre-
liminary subaerial erosion. However, such bays may not all represent
river valleys submerged by change of sea-level. Ocean waves usually
tend to smooth continental coast-lines, faced by broad submarine
shelves. The shelves have a double office. They furnish shallow
platforms on which coastal detritus may be quickly aggraded to sea-
level; and they lower the erosive energy of the surf by partly wearing-
out waves from the open ocean. Smoothing of a coast-line is a direct
function of offshore aggradation. As the latter is delayed because
of great depth of water, the waves have a longer time to search out
the weak places in the land mass attacked. The more steep-to the
coast, the more powerful are the attacking waves. In both respects
undefended volcanic islands, with very deep water close to their
shores, are subject to specially rapid searching by the waves. Now
the very existence of a main valley in a Pleistocene island implies
that its flooring rocks were already somewhat weakened by weather-
ing. The volume of rock above sea-level, per unit length of shore
line, was smallest at the intersection of the shore line with the
valley floor. For two reasons, therefore, the surging breakers must
have tended to cut bays in the Pleistocene islands, just as they are
now cutting baj's in the Algerian coast, in some parts of the North
Atlantic coast, in Christmas island (Indian ocean), and elsewhere. ^°
60 See T. Fischer, Petermann's Geog. Mitt., p. 1 (1887); C. W. Andrews,
Geog. Jour., 13 (1899) (map of Christmas island).
