228 DALY.
Central-island bays of this origin are probably shorter and less con-
spicuous than those due to the drowning of stream -erosion valleys,
but are none the less worthy of attention by the student of shore
topography.
Again, as noted on page 162, a complete analysis of the bay problem
must take account of the possibility of a Recent shift of sea-level,
owing to causes other than the melting of glaciers. Post-Glacial
uplift of the sea floor, over extensive areas, has been proved. If it
has not been wholly compensated by sinking of the ocean bottom
elsewhere, a general rise of sea-level occurred in post-Glacial time.
Such a positive movement would tend to drown the valley-in-valley
"edges," the Pleistocene shore cliffs, and allied topographic features.
A post-Glacial rise of a few meters is quite possible as the result of
diastrophic processes.
On the other hand, the level of the ocean to-day cannot be many
meters from its position in the Pliocene period. (See page 198.)
That conclusion follows from the facts expressed in the charts of the
continental shelves. Whatever may be the shapes of the rocky
terranes beneath the shelves, the surface of each shelf has surely been
smoothed and greatly widened by waves and currents. Each repre-
sents an embankment growing, like a delta, into deep water. Normal
storm waves and ocean currents effectively transport bottom mud if
the depth of water is 75 m. to 40 m. or less. Depths of 75 m. to 40 m.
prevail in the outer half of each of the wider shelves throughout the
ocean. The building out of the great embankments to their actual
widths demands all the time from at least the mid-Pliocene to the
present day. The continental shelves seem, therefore, to indicate
nearly the same position for sea-level during the later Tertiary as for
post-Glacial time. The Pleistocene shifts of level represent a com-
paratively brief interlude, and there is no evidence that the major
shifts of that period were essentially caused by any other process than
glaciation and deglaciation.
Finally, the absolute proof of bay-making by Recent subsidence
would not establish general subsidence for all areas characterized by
barrier reefs or atolls, nor would it invalidate the Glacial-control
theory. Recent warping or faulting of the earth's crust, in moderate
amount, is an obvious fact in the Fijis, in the Tonga archipelago, in
New Caledonia, in Oahu of the Hawaiian group, and in some other
oceanic localities. The elevated strand-lines of the uplifted parts
have correlatives in the drowned valleys of the sunken parts. As
above noted, the Pleistocene platforms have been simultaneously
