NEW INDO-MALAYAN LABOULBENIALES. 11
on the inner side, the distal portion contracted abruptly to form a
characteristic rostrate termination almost twice as long as the venter,
I^urplish brown, lighter and slightly constricted above the middle;
the apex blunt, often slightly bent. Spores 20 X 7.5 m- Venter of
perithecium, exclusive of marginal cells of axis, 42-48 X 25-28 ^u ;
the rostrate termination 63-72 X 10-12 ix. Secondary appendages
24 X 3.5 fjL, not including their projecting basal cells which are 7-12 X
2.5 M- Total length to tip of perithecium 240-450 X 20-35 /jl.
On the right elytron of Taniignathus ruficoUis Kr., Java, and Sara-
wak, Borneo.
This species of which the specimens from Borneo are taken as the
types, the Ja^'an material being immature, is aberrant in several re-
spects; more especially in its rostrate perithecium with inflated venter
and laterally placed ascogenic cells. The secondary appendages sug-
gest those of Monoicomyces Lcptochiri in the general appearance of
their dark projecting basal cells. Although a large species, it is not
readily seen, since it lies perfectly flat on the elytron.
Rickia Tomari nov. sp.
Form rather short and stout, foot small, structure determinate or
subdeterminate, nearly hyaline, except the deep brown hyaline-tipped
perithecium. Basal cell somewhat longer than broad, slightly in-
truded between, or broadly rounded and slightly overlapping a pair of
subbasal, nearly equal, somewhat irregular cells above which three
cell-rows are distinguished: an axial row of three larger and somewhat
dissimilar cells, followed by three or two successively smaller cells
which lie in contact with the base of the perithecium on the posterior
side : a posterior row of usually six more regular and somewhat rounded
cells, the upper two or three small and extending to or nearly to, the
end of the axial series, terminating in the flattened basal cell of the
primary appendage; all its cells except the uppermost, cutting oft'
three or four small cells which lie side by side somewhat irregularly
and horizontally, each giving rise to well developed antheridia of the
normal type, or to short appendages, smaller than the antheridia and
much more numerous, both distinguished by dark brown cup-like
suffusions at the hardly constricted subtending septa: the anterior
row consisting of usually six marginal cells, the two terminal ones
lying beside and united to the base of the perithecium, and extending
higher up than the corresponding cells of the axial row on the opposite
