GLACIAL-CONTROL THEORY OF CORAL REEFS. 231
the new theory is correct, the atoll platforms were probably not the
loci of pre-Glacial atolls. There is, in fact, no apparent reason for
holding that great atolls or barrier reefs ever existed in pre-Pleistocene
time. The extent of the massive coral reefs in the Pleistocene islands
cannot be definitely stated, though in no case may it have been many
times greater than, for example, that of the fringing reef at Rodriguez
island in the Indian ocean. (See Fig. 28.) In any case it is unwise
to assume that massive reef-rock or any other strong rock capped the
whole of any Pleistocene island, which was truncated to form the wide
fiats bearing the present atoll reefs.
In conclusion, the quantity of wave-benching implied by the
Glacial-control theory does not appear to represent a fatal objection
to that theory, if the varying nature of the Pleistocene islands and
shoals is well appreciated.
Biology of Oceanic Islands. Another published objection is that
the existing faunas and floras of the oceanic islands do not accord with
a theory involving general crustal stability for the ocean floors during
the later geological periods. However, the literature of biogeography
shows such a diversity of opinions on this subject that the criterion
cannot be fairly described as now having any decisive value. Darwin,
Hooker, Salvin, Griesbach, Engler, M. Wagner, Wallace, Peschel,
Wolf, A. Agassiz, Stearns, Heller, Dall, and F. X. Williams have con-
cluded that the organisms of the Galapagos islands are not such as to
necessitate belief in a former connection of this purely volcanic archi-
pelago with any continent. Baur, H. Milne-Edwards, Von Ihering,
and Van Denburgh, after their biological studies, thought best to
assume a former connection with South America. Inasmuch as sharp
divergence of views affects one of the best known island groups, any
definite opinion regarding the origin of island species throughout the
wide coral seas can still have but little - value. Consensus among
the expert investigators is reserved for the distant future. The lit-
tle that is known about the matter does not appear to weaken the
Glacial-control theory, nor to support the subsidence theory, as ap-
plied to coral reefs in general.
Difficulties of the Subsidence Theory.
A discussion of all published hypotheses concerning the reefs will
not here be undertaken. Murray's solution theory, formerly re-
garded with favor by leading investigators, is now seen to be weak on
the quantitative side and is discounted by recent discoveries in typical
