232 DALY.
lagoons. However, certain features of the popular subsidence theory
may be reviewed, in order to show more clearly the special advantages
of the Glacial-control theory, the only other one involving Recent
change of sea-level v/ithin the tropics. Here again discussion will be
facilitated by a certain amount of repetition in presenting salient
facts.
Its Alternative Statements. It is important to observe that the
Darwin-Dana theory is not the only explanation through subsidence.
The vievv' of those famous authors is illustrated in the following passage,
taken from the last (1895) edition of Dana's "Manual of Geology,"'
page 350. Taking the Pacific area of reefs as a type, he wrote: "If,
then, the atolls are registers of subsidence, a vast area has partaken
in it — measuring 6,000 miles in length (a fourth of the earth's cir-
cumference), and 1,000 to 2,000 in breadth. Just south of the line
there are extensive coral reefs; north of it the atolls are large, but they
diminish toward the equator, and mostly disappear north of it; and,,
as the smaller atolls indicate the greater amount of subsidence, and
the absence of islands still more, the line AA [of his map of the ocean]
may be regarded as the axial line of this great Pacific subsidence.
The amount of this subsidence may be inferred, from the soundings
near some of the islands, to be at least 3,000 feet. But as 200 islands
have disappeared, and it is probable that some among them were at
least as high as the average of existing high islands, the subsidence in
some parts cannot be less than 5,000 feet. This sinking probably
began in the Tertiary era."
In postulating a general, prolonged sinking of parts of the sea-
bottom, each 10,000,000 to 25,000,000 square km. in area, Darwin and
Dana agreed. As to one leading point the principles of their books
do not agree. Darwin indicated the possibility of one or more con-
siderable pauses in the subsidence; Dana seems not to have considered
that suggestion as worthy of emphasis. The necessity of assuming
at least one very long pause, if the Darwin-Dana theory is to with-
stand even preliminary criticism, will be noted in succeeding pages.
But Gerland offered a very different version of the subsidence
theory. According to him, the coral reefs do not show sinking of wide
continuous areas of the ocean floor, but do show the indepenflent
sinking of each island mass ("Sockel"). In each case the subsidence
is quite local, but has taken place at thousands of different points. ^^
This idea is worthy of attention. Nearly all of the oceanic islands and
63 G. Gerland, Beitraege zur Geophysik, 2, 56 (1895).
