GLACIAL-CONTROL THEORY OF CORAL REEFS. 233
shoals seem to be of volcanic origin. Rising from a sea bottom,
3,000 m. to 7,000 m. deep, each volcano is very high in absolute
measure and is also of notable area. The local extravasation of so
much lava may well entail local, moderate sinking of the earth's crust.
It is, indeed, possible that such sinking is very often caused directly
by volcanic action on a large scale. ^* More certain is the fact that,
after a great volcanic cone is formed, its upper and central part tends
to subside. Probably owing to the slow compacting of its deeper
tuffs and vesicular flows, as these are gradually heated and so softened
by the magma of the central vent, the mass slowly settles. The loss
of connate water in the deeper ash-beds, both because of the heating
and because of mere dead-weight, is another cause for settling in a local
area, below the highest part of the volcano. Actual subsidence of
this kind is exemplified in the "volcanic sinks" located at many
central vents of the first rank.^^
Possibly, therefore, some of the drowned valleys and other physio-
graphic features showing submergence of volcanic islands are to be
explained by local sinking to the extent of a few meters or a few scores
of meters. Clearly such subsidences would have very different
geological dates, according to the respective times of preliminary
volcanism. Erosion valleys so drowned in pre-Glacial periods would
be filled, below sea-level, with sediment, which would be cleaned out
again by the Pleistocene waves. Conceivably, some broad bays in
the existing central islands may have thus originated.
However, Gerland's version of the subsidence theory does not
account for the essential contemporaneity of the present atoll, barrier,
and fringing reefs. That they have been developed nearly or quite
in the same interval of time is shown by their sectional areas and their
volumes, as measured, in each case, above the break of slope at the
platform on which the crowning reef stands. If the simultaneous
submergence of coral islands in general were really due to crustal
subsidence, the Darwin-Dana postulate seems to represent the only
possibility. Their view is the one now to be briefly examined.
Uniformity of the Assumed Subsidence. As just hinted, the surface
outcrops and volumes of the greater barrier and atoll reefs, measurefl
from the levels of the lagoon floors, are respectively nearly equivalent
in the Pacific and Indian oceans and in the neighboring seas. If these
reefs were formed by subsidence, the earth's crust must have sunk at
64 R. A. Daly, Igneous Rocks and Their Origin, New York, p. 185 (1914).
65 R. A. Daly, ibid., p. 150.
