234 DALY.
a nearly uniform rate, throughout the enormous area described.
Since all large-scale crustal movement, which has become well under-
stood, is differential — one part of a crust block moving faster than
other parts, the Darwin-Dana theory faces another strong antecedent
objection. Their postulate also fails to account for the approximate
equality of volumes characterizing the typical atoll crown and the
typical fringing reef, each volume being measured above the break of
slope at the platform. One can hardly assume that all coasts fringed
with reefs have sunk in recent geological time at the rate supposed to
explain the atolls; nor that most fringing reefs are located in rising
areas. Somewhere or other, an area of essential stability must exist
in the coral-sea region; and there, according to Darwin himself, the
breadth of the fringing reef should be much greater than that of a
normal atoll or barrier reef.^^ This consequence is not matched with
fact.
Alleged Proofs of Current Subsidence. So far as the writer has been
able to cover the literature, no case is recorded where a region bearing
an atoll or barrier reef has been shown, beyond question, to be now
visibly sinking. At least some of the instances cited by Darwin and
others have not survived destructive criticism. This fact does not
disprove his theory, but it annuls one of the positive arguments put
forward in support of the theory. Even if local current subsidence
were demonstrated, the Darwin-Dana theory would not be specially
favored, for local sinking, like local uplift, is to be expected on any
theory.
Darwin's related argument, derived from the "drowned" condition
of the Great Chagos and other atolls, has already been discussed
(page 213). It falls to the ground if the phenomenon is due to hurri-
cane action and mud-control.
Permanence of the Pacific Basin. Dana was a leading advocate of
the antiquity of most of the depressions occupied by the present ocean.
Many specialists in geological dynamics favor that view, at least as
far as the Pacific basin is concerned. Assuming great antiquity for
the Pacific basin, the Darwin-Dana explanation of its reefs implies a
unique, or almost unique, behaviour of the intertropical part of the
basin in recent geological time. The narrowness of the atoll reefs is
interpreted as meaning relatively rapid sinking. According to each
of the two authors, the floor of the reef-covered Pacific has sunk
thousands of feet within a period which is probably not equal to 5
66 C. Darwin, Coral Reefs, London, 3rd ed., p. 43 (1889).
