GLACIAL-CONTROL THEORY OF CORAL REEFS. 235
per cent, of recorded geological time. Clearly, similar sinking could
not have occurred often in the same area, during the remaining 95
per cent of that record. No reason for specially great and rapid
subsidence since the beginning of the "coral-reef period "' (early
Miocene?) has yet been given. If this late sinking were actually
preceded by many similar ones in the same area, during pre-Cambrian
and later periods, one must assume intervening epochs when the sea-
bottom was upheaved ; so that the final depth of the ocean should be
no greater than it actually is. Rhythmic diastrophism of the kind
and scale demanded is improbable. It should have left traces in the
bottom topography of the Pacific, which, however, seems to be lacking
in such evidences.
The antiquity of a deep Pacific basin may be false doctrine, but,
so long as manj^ facts continue to require its assumption, the subsi-
dence theory has to bear the heavy burden of explaining the recent
character of the postulated sinking of the Pacific bottom. In less
measure the difficulty also applies to the Indian ocean area of reefs.
High antiquity for the basin does not exclude its progressive deep-
ening, but the relative stability of most of its floor in the later Tertiary
seems proved by the size of the larger reef platforms and other
banks. In whatever way these plateaus have been formed, the process
must have taken very much time, even measured by the geological
scale. The Glacial-control theory holds that only the final touches
in fashioning the platforms were applied during the Pleistocene.
Banks of sand and mud and low islands of similar material or of weak
rocks were then truncated by the waves. During the relatively brief
Glacial period, the sea bottom was so nearly stable as to permit of
the wide benching of such banks and islands. The whole period was
but a minute fraction of recorded geological time, and therefore is
likely to have been one of general sea-floor stability, if the ocean basin
dates from an early stage in the earth's history.
The problem is baffling because of insufficient data, but the conclu-
sion remains that the subsidence theor}^ is at a disadvantage because
of the difficulty of reconciling it with facts, independent of coral reefs
and suggesting an immense age for most of the ocean basin.
Small Maximum Depth of Lagoons. Dana remarks that his theory
" explains all the varying depths of lagoons, from the condition of near
obliteration to that of a basin one to three hundred feet deep." ^^ A
few paragraphs be^^ond, he adds: "The coral-growing areas over the
67 J. D. Dana, Corals and Coral Islands, New York, 3rd ed., p. 272 (1890).
