236 DALY.
great lagoons of atolls and the barrier-bounded channels of the Feejees
and other archipelagoes and those of the outer waters about islands
or their barriers, show no tendency to grow with large depressed
centres, but rather with flat tops, as vegetation might grow, or else
with elevated centres .... It is only through continued subsidence
under such conditions that the margins can be made to grow so much
faster than the interior as to produce thereby a basin-like interior
50 to 300 feet deep."
It is strange that his recognition of only 300 feet (91 m.) as approxi-
mately the maximum depth of lagoons inside both atoll and barrier
reefs did not lead Dana to question the subsidence theory more seri-
ously. Darwin did anticipate this objection and tried to meet it, as
shown in the following passages : " Another and less obvious objection
to the theory may perhaps be advanced, namely, that, although atolls
and barrier-reefs are supposed to have gone on subsiding for a long
period, yet that their lagoons and lagoon-channels have only rarely
come to exceed 40 and never 60 fathoms in depth. But if our theory
is worth consideration, we already admit that the rate of subsidence
has not ordinarily exceeded that of the upward growth of the massive
corals which live on the margins of the reefs, so that we have only
further to suppose that the rate has never exceeded that at which
lagoons and lagoon-channels are filled up by the growth of the delicate
corals which live there, and by the accumulation of sediment. As the
filling-up process, in the case of barrier-reefs lying far from the land,
and of the larger atolls, must be an extremely slow one, we are led to
conclude that the subsiding movement has always been equally slow\
And this conclusion accords well with what is known of the rate of
recent movements of elevation
" And with respect to the whole amount of subsidence necessary to
have produced the many atolls widely scattered over immense spaces,
the movement, as alread}^ shown, must either have been uniform and
exceedingly slow, or effected by small steps separated from each other
by long intervals of time, so as to have allowed the reef-constructing
polypifers to bring up their solid framework to the surface; and this
is one of the most interesting conclusions to which we are led by the
study of coral-formations." ^^ Statements of similar import have not
been discovered in Dana's book.
The multitude of new charts published since Darwin and Dana
wrote their books, have essentially confirmed their generalization as
68 C. Darwin, Coral Reefs, London, 3rd ed., pp. 153-4 and 192-3 (1889).
