GLACIAL-CONTROL THEORY OF CORAL REEFS. 237
to maximum depths; it is not likely to be shaken by additional sound-
ing. Yet, if the great atolls are due to the sinking of correspondingly
extensive islands, it is truly incredible that the lagoon depth should
nowhere greatly exceed 300 feet (91 m.).
The subsidence in such a case has been estimated in terms of thou-
sands of feet. As the initial fringing reef was converted into a barrier
and that finally into an atoll, the broadening lagoon waters must
cover a kind of encircling moat between the central island or shoal
and the upgrowing exterior reef. The reef speedily reaching the sea
surface through most of its length, the waves and currents of the open
ocean can do very little toward aggrading the lagoon floor, which is
little or not at all disturbed by any waves or currents generated in the
lagoon itself. Some of the fragmental material flooring each lagoon
is derived from the rimming reef. From the outer edge of that reef
the heavy surf is constantly forming mud, sand, and loose blocks.
Some of the detritus is thrown forward by the breakers, to compose
reef islets or reef awash. A much greater proportion is dragged out
into deep water. ^^ One often meets the statement that much material
is washed over the reef into the lagoon, but obviously the amount so
transported can be only a small part of the whole detritus. That
fraction, together with material locally brought in through reef
channels, must be deposited near the reef, for waves and currents
inside the lagoon are usually powerless to move sand in water 40 m.
or more in depth. Abrasion by the lagoon waves is very low. The
resulting debris, of grain coarser than that of fine mud, is likewise
deposited close to the reef. As stated in the Royal Society report on
Funafuti (page 375) Sollas observed that coral debris forms " but an
insignificant part" of the "sand" (loose material) flooring that atoll
lagoon, the chief constituents being foraminiferal shells and calcareous
algae. In the extensive interior of the lagoon, any clastic material
derived from the main reef is mud, with a little sand distributed by
occasional great storms. The filling and smoothing-out of the hypo-
thetical "moat" about a subsiding island is evidently little aided by
this mud. The coarser detritus should form a well-defined terrace
slowly growing inward from the reef. Such terraces would also be
expected as a consequence of the Glacial-control theory; they are, in
fact, conspicuous, though narrow, in Curtis's wonderful model of
Funafuti at the Harvard University Museum. Their volumes are
exactly of the order demanded if the reefs are of modern origin.
69 Cf. V. Cornish, Geog. Jour., 11, 530 (1898).
