238
DALY.
As the island, of normal profile, sinks, the land detritus rapidly
diminishes in volume. The heads of the island deltas retreat farther
from the "moat," so that its filling cannot be essentially attributed to
outwashing from the central island.
The slowness of the filling-in process is further shown by the very
common steepness of the inner reef slope (Fig. 35). Darwin speaks
of such reefs as "like a wall." ^° Describing the Funafuti atoll,
Gardiner WTites: "The bottom of the lagoon, if the shoals were re-
moved, and the whole elevated, would be a great plain surrounded by
a ridge sloping steeply up to a line of perpendicular cliffs broken only
at the few ship's channels; on this plain the greatest heights would be
from 20-30 feet." ^^ In his great monograph on the INIaldives,
Gardiner describes the lagoon slopes of the reefs as "practically per-
pendicular" and elsewhere states that this fact "is not consistent with
La g oon
50 100 200
400
Figure 35. Section illustrating the common steepness of reef edges on the
two sides.
the possibility of the lagoon's having been filled in by detritus washed
over their encircling reefs." ^^ Like many coral knolls dotting the
lagoon floors, the inner edge of the main reef often shows soundings
of 20 to 40 m., at very short distances from the reef edge visible at low
tide. In such cases the rate of upgrowth for the living reef must have
been greater than the rate of upgrowth for the sand terrace alongside.
If the aggrading process is so inadequate at the source of supply, how
much more inadequate is it to smooth the vast interior of the lagoon
in any reasonable time! (See Fig. 36.)
As shown by the normal deepening toward the lagoon centers and
by the sparseness of the coral knolls, pelagic shells, coral-knoll detritus,
and bottom growths would be still less effective in filling the "moat"
70 C. Darwin, Coral Reefs, London, 3rd ed., p. 67 (1889)
71 J. S. Gardiner, Proc. Cambridge Fhil. Soc, 9, 434 (1898)
72 J. S. Gardiner, Amer. Jour. Science, 16, 211 (1903).
