12 THAXTER.
side; a seventh cell lying immediately below the base of the perithe-
cium, between the third cell of the axial and the fourth cell of the
anterior series, the members of which, except the small terminal one,
cut off small cells like those of the posterior series; the lowest, how-
ever, like the posterior subbasal cell, Ijearing only a single appendicu-
late cell. Perithecium nearly symmetrical, erect, rich black-ljrown
except at the base where it is yellowish, and at the contrasting hyaline
tip; the venter slightly inflated below, tapering slightly above; the
upper half of its suffused portion broad, with often nearly parallel
margins, and slightly enlarged below the abruptly distinguished,
contrasting, hyaline, nearly symmetrical, blunt-conical tip. Peri-
thecia 80-90 X 22-24 /x- Antheridia 10 X 3.5 m- Total length to
tip of perithecium 135-150 X 30-36 fx.
On the elytra of Tomarus sp.. No. 2095: Peradenij'a, Ceylon.
This species is not nearly allied to any other that is known to me,
and is easily distingviished by its white-tipped, deep l)rown perithe-
cium, the body of which is more or less clearly distinguished into an
inflated ventral and broad neck-portion, above which the short tip is
abruptly differentiated.
Rickia marginata nov. sp.
Hyaline or faintly yellowish, with thick white walls, the appendages
only l:)ecoming slightly brownish, broad and flattened, very variable
in size; the cells of the receptacle multinucleate. Basal cell longer
than broad, broader distally, variably intruded between two paired
elongated subbasal cells, the posterior somewhat longer, distally
separated by a long single axial cell which extends above the base of
the perithecium and, together with a small flat cell lying above it close
against the venter and terminating in an appendage, constitutes the
axial series: the anterior series consisting of the anterior subbasal
cell and a normally single and elongate cell, which may occasionally
be irregularly divided, and extends from its apex to the base of the
perithecium; the posterior series also consisting normally of the
posterior subbasal cell and a single greatly elongated cell, rarely
divided transversely, followed by a smaller cell usually somewhat
longer than broad, often lying nearly horizontally and ending in
the basal cell of the primary appendage, around which it cuts off
small, often numerous, appendiculate cells all of which bear single
appendages not distinguishable from the primary appendage; the
