244
DALY.
of central faros not killed during the lately renewed submergence?
The first question is directly answered by the Glacial-control theory;
the second presents a residual problem which is not vital to the newer
theory.
Finally, it may be recalled that many wide banks far outside the
coral seas have roughly accordant and nearly uniform depths of 45
to 90 m. — of the same order of magnitude as the depths in the wider
lagoons and on unrimmed banks within the coral seas. Evidently the
"long pause" in subsidence must be considered in the case of the
extra-tropical banks also. However, these were not formed by coral
growth and it is generally agreed that they are due to abrasion and
concomitant shelf-building by waves and currents. Two totally
different causes thus produce, in each of the broad oceans, banks that
accord in depth. If the unrimmed Padua bank (Fig. 37) has similar
depth because it has shared in the sinking of neighboring atolls
(Darwin's view), it is as logical to assume that all the great banks
Figure 44. Composite copy of Darwin's sections illustrating his subsidence
theory. Successive sea-levels at L, L', and L"; fringing reefs at F; barriers
at B; atoll reefs at A .
showing similar depths have likewise subsided, and to practically the
same amount. The incredible nature of that conclusion needs no
emphasis.
The subsidence theory is not simple, as so often claimed. Because
of the improvement in ocean charts since Darwin's day, the necessity
of postulating an extremely long pause in subsidence is now clearer
than ever, if this theory is to be saved at all. In other words, the
accessory assumption of very prolonged crustal stability really ex-
plains much more of the intertropical topography than does the chief
postulate of crustal instability. Related assumptions are: that the
renewal of sinking was essentially synchronous throughout the reef
areas; and that this sinking, in the same vast regions, was very nearly
uniform in amount. Compared to an explanation so complicated, the
