GLACIAL-CONTROL THEORY OF CORAL REEFS. 245
Glacial-control theory imposes little strain on the logical faculty.
The series of topographic forms, from fringing reefs through barrier
reefs to atoll reefs, look as simple as a natural sequence can well he,
but it may be wholly deceptive.
Psychological Influence of Classic Diagrams. The text diagrams
ordinarily used to illustrate the Darwin-Dana theory are subject to
serious criticism. In Darwin's book the sinking island is represented
as a single, somewhat eroded, volcanic cone, the slopes above sea-level
(at the beginning of the subsidence) having angles of 16° to 70° (Fig.
44). The legends imply that no exaggeration of slope is intended in
this part of each section. The initial submarine slope is shown for a
short distance, with a rapid flattening to less than 5°, in the direction
of the open sea. The initial breadth of the island is only four times
its height. In Dana's diagrams, published in " Corals and Coral
Islands," the original island is likewise represented as a single volcanic
cone, its subaerial slopes ranging from 16° to 45°; no submarine slopes
are indicated, nor does legend or text suggest any exaggeration of the
natural slopes. The initial breadth of the island is less than six times
its height. In the last edition of his "Manual of Geology," Dana
gives sections essentially like those of Darwin. Nearly all the sections
published by other writers to illustrate the theory are, in principle,
similar.
Original islands of such proportions could, by subsidence, produce
only very small atolls. To explain any of the greater atolls in the
same way, the original island must be assumed to have had very
different proportions, even if it culminated in a point 4,000 m. above
sea. Its average slope must be much less than that shown in the
diagrams mentioned. With gentler initial slopes, the increase in the
lagoon area during sinking must be more rapid than in the case of a
steep-sided island. The more rapidly the lagoon area expands, the
slower must be the aggradation of its floor by detritus from the outer
reef or from the central island. As already observed, sections drawn
to scale for such a large island would indicate the difficulty of explain-
ing why many of the world's lagoons are not more than about 90 m.
in depth. Undoul^tedly the subsidence theory has too long enjoyed
the fictitious aid of imperfect diagrams, which have been studied in,
or copied from, the classic works.
Assuming for the original island a more probable average value for
the subaerial slope, one not exceeding 10°, and assuming the sub-
marine slope as not more than about 10°, Dietrich's mean \alue for
volcanic islands to a depth of 2,000 m., the sections illustrating the
