GLACIAL-CONTROL THEORY OF CORAL REEFS.
247
subsidence theory would be very different from those of Darwin and
Dana.'^^ When one remembers that most of the detritus abraded from
the main reef goes to form talus on the outer submarine slope; and,
secondly, that the growth of new coral is much faster on that side, he
cannot fail to expect a centrifugal tendency for the encircling reef, as
the island sinks (Fig. 48). Von Lendenfeld seems to have been the
only author who has hitherto recognized this tendency and published
diagrams to accord with it (Figs. 45-47)." On the other hand, the
sections of both Darwin and Dana indicate a centripetal tendency
for the reef as sinking progresses, so that the area enclosed by the reef
continually diminishes.
The Test bij Boring Through Reefs. If von Lendenfeld's view is
Figure 48. Diagrammatic section showing the great amount of a reef's
centrifugal displacement which is necessary if the reef continued growth during
the subsidence of a normal volcanic island (vertically lined), and if the "moat"
were always filled with detritus, so as to show depths no greater than those
of actual lagoons. The line 1-2-3 is arbitrarily drawn straight. If the rate
of subsidence were uniform, this line should be concave upwards. At 1, 2, and
3 are the respective sea-levels at fringing, barrier, and atoll stages {Fr, Ba, and
At) of the reef.
correct, the massive reef of a large atoll must lie unconformably upon
talus of indefinite depth. Hence the Funafuti borings could not, in
any case, have penetrated massive reef material in situ to a depth
greater than about 45 m. That the actual site of the borings was
unwisely chosen is apparent. The theory of subsidence itself, fairly
developed, should have indicated as much. It needs testing by bore-
holes sunk well inside the reefs of atolls and barrier-encircled islands.
The Bermuda boring gives the nearest approach to a vital test. Its
result does not favor the subsidence theory but its value must remain
76 F. Dietrich, Untersuchungen iiber die Boschungsverhaltnisse der Sockel
ozeanischer Inseln, Greifswald, 1892; also A. Supan, Grundziige der physischen
Erdkunde, Leipzig, 3te Aufl., p. 690 (1903).
77 R. von Lendenfeld, Gaea, Jahrg. 26, 196 (1890); Westermann's Monats-
hefte, Jan., 1896, p. 505.
