248 DALY.
subordinate until other borings are made at properly selected points
on other platforms, preferably those in the Pacific and Indian oceans.
(See page 218.)
General Conclusion.
Older than either the subsidence theory or the Glacial-control
theory is the view that atoll and barrier reefs stand on sea-cut plat-
forms, the date and conditions of the abrasion being left undecided.
The latest theory by no means excludes belief in the importance of
pre-Glacial marine erosion in preparing the reef platforms. The
Mesozoic and older oceanic islands and continental shores were pre-
sumably not always protected by reefs from the fury of the sea. If
not protected for one or more long periods, during which sea-level
was unchanged, broad wave-cut benches were inevitable. The
existing reef-coral species appear to have been evolved during the
Tertiary period. Their full cooperative power of resisting abrasion
could not have been reached until a time much later than that when
the most ancient of the species were evolved. Massive coral reefs
of the clearly protective type are rare in the uplifted Tertiary forma-
tions, and it is not certain that a single one exists in the pre-Tertiary
limestones. Even under existing conditions, many coral structures,
apparently in positions favorable to vigorous reef growth, are com-
pletely truncated by the waves. Other reefs are just able to hold
their own because of the geologically recent development of coopera-
tion among the coral species. It is reasonable to suppose that the
pre-Tertiary coasts, and perhaps the early Tertiary coasts, were less
well protected by reefs. On the other hand, one cannot assume
temperature and other conditions to have been continuously favorable
to vigorous coral growth, since the epoch when the required coopera-
tion among the coral species became a habit. More generally stated,
the problem illustrates once again the danger of applying the strictly
uniformitarian principle.
The Glacial-control theory has been formulated in the first system-
ative attempt to show where and when this principle, as applied to
the life conditions of reef -building species, breaks down. The new
theory really supports the conclusions of Tyerman and Bennet (1832),
Wharton, Agassiz, and others, who have seen, in whole archipelagoes,
the independence of reef and reef platform. A weakness in their
arguments has been the failure to show a good reason why protecting
reefs were absent from most inter-tropical shores for a total time long
