NEW INDO-MALAYAN LABOULBENIALES. 13
whole forming a dense terminal group, the members usually much
more elongate than those which arise lower down: the two subbasal
and the lateral cells also giving rise to numerous secondary appendages,
subtended by small lateral basal cells, either closely associated to form
a continuous margin, or variable and irregularly distributed singly or
in groups; the lumen of these cells small, the walls very thick, the
single cells or groups slightly prominent beyond the margin, each
separated from the appendage by a large cup-like brownish l^lack
suffusion at the constricted septum: the appendages variably elon-
gated, unicellular, cylindrical, or irregularly somewhat inflated, or
often slightly tapering. Antheridia apparently few in numl)er,
becoming more or less free and irregularly developed. Perithecium
concolorous, one half free, and convex on the inner side; wholly free
and straight, or slightly concave externally, usually projecting out-
ward at a slight angle to the axis; relatively small in well developed
individuals; the walls thick; the tip not distinguished, truncate
conical or bluntly rounded. Perithecia 75-80 X 35-38 /i. Spores
46 X 4.5 M- Receptacle 150-625 X 46-85 fj.. Lateral appendages
30-80 X 5 m; terminal up to 300 X 8 /x.
In various positions on Heterophaga jmncfulata Motsch. (det.
Champion); No. 2108 Peradeniya, Ceylon.
As will be seen from the above description, this species is clearly
distinguished by the unusual character of its perithecium, the greatly
elongated cells of which separate often very numerous appendiculate
cells seriately arranged along their margins. The occasional occur-
rence of septation in these long cells appears to be a secondary phe-
nomenon. The antheridia have not been very satisfactorily made
out, but, as in some other instances, appear to become more or less
free in irregular groups. Although far more highly developed this
species remotely resembles Rickia Lispini in the character of the
cell-series which form the receptacle.
Rickia Coptengalis nov. sp.
Rather long and broad with blackish brown and yellowish brown
suffusions; the receptacle of about the same width throughout, except
where it becomes narrowed at the base; the basal cell narrower than
the somewhat rounded foot, hyaline and contrasting with the two
suffused, paired, and nearly triangular cells above it, between which its
bluntly rounded distal end is intruded. Above this pair of cells the
