262 WHEELER.
L. erythrocephalus which had a small Dipteran puparium firmly glued
to the dorsal surface of its thorax. This puparium had its long axis
parallel with that of the ant's body and its anterior end directed to-
ward the ant's head. Unfortunately the j9y had already escaped.
I am inclined to believe that it must have been one of the Phoridse.
Turner ® calls attention to a " spider that takes to itself the appearance
of a worker of Lepto7nyrmex erythroccphalus Fabr. and curves its abdo-
men upwards and forwards until it rests on the top of the thorax, ex-
actly the same as the ant," and Rainbow "^ mentions a Misumenine
spider which feeds exclusively on L. erythroccphalus.
The geographical distribution of the species of Lcptomyrmex is very
suggestive. Of the eight recorded species five {erythroccphalus, 7iigri-
mntris, froggatti, varians and unicolor) are confined to Australia, and,
so far as known, to the eastern or littoral portion of New South Wales
and Queensland, one {fragiUs) occurs in the Ai'u Islands and New
Guinea, one {nigcr) in New Guinea only, and one {pallcns) in New
Guinea and New Caledonia.^ Of the Australian species, the typical
nigriventris and froggatti seem to be confined to New South Wales,
■varians and its varieties to Queensland, while erythroccphalus ranges
over both states. L. unicolor is restricted to the Cape York Peninsula
of Northern Queensland.
The occurrence of the genus Lcptomyrmula in the Sicilian amber
shows that the tribe Leptomyrmicii had once a very wide distribution
in the Old World and that the present restriction of the genus Lepto-
Tnyrmex to Papua and Australia is the results of the complete extinc-
tion of probably many genera and species of the tribe over the greater
part of its former range. The question then presents itself: Did the
species of Lcptomyrmex, like so many of the animals and plants of
Eastern Queensland and New South Wales, originate in New Guinea
and migrate into Australia, or is it an indigenous Australian genus,
which, like some of the Eucalypti, Epacridese and phyllodineous
Acacias among plants, has spread to New Guinea and New Caledonia?
The larger size of the species and their greater number in Australia
certainly indicate that this is the center of distribution, but which ever
6 loco citato, p. 136.
7 Descriptions of Some New Araneidje of New South Wales. No. 8. Proc.
Linn. Soc. N. S. W., 22, 514-533, 2 pis. 1897 (1898).
8 Stitz's recent record of L. erythrocephalus from "Newcastle, New Zealand",
(Australische Ameisen, Sitzb. Gesell. Naturf. Freunde, Berlin, 1911, p. 368)
is evidently a blunder, which Emery has unfortunately cited in the Genera
Insectorum as indicating a possible importation of this ant into New Zealand.
Newcastle is a flourishing town in New South Wales.
