AUSTRALIAN HONEY-ANTS. 263
view we take, we are bound to assume that the genus could only have
reached its present distribution at a time when land connections existed
between New Guinea, Australia and New Caledonia, if I am right
in maintaining that winged females do not occur in the genus.
There are, however, still other considerations that point to the
origin of the genus Leptomyrmex in Australia and the subsequent
migration of some of its species to Papua, viz. the development of the
honey-storing habit in the different species. I have found repletes
in all the Australian species except unicolor. L. pallens of New Cale-
donia is known to have repletes, and the same is probably true of
7iiger and fragilis, although nothing is known concerning the haljits
of these two Papuan forms. I regard L. unicolor as the most primitive
species of the genus, because its larva is least modified, because the
adult has not acquired the honey-storing habit and because it is con-
fined to the moist coastal "scrub." Nearly all the other forms live
in much dryer situations and have evidently developed repletes as a
means of tiding over the dry season. We know that this habit has
been independently developed in several other Australian ant genera.
It has long been known in Melophorus species and in a Camponotus
(C. inflatus) . I have observed it in several species of Pheidolc and in
an undescribed Pheidologeton from Queensland, a genus not hitherto
recorded from Australia. In the species of these two genera the
soldiers have become repletes, with a very noticeable though not
spherical distension of the gaster. Now the Australian botanists have
concluded from the differences between the juvenile and adult foliage
of the Eucalypti and phyllodineous Acacias that the Australian cli-
mate was originally much more humid than it is at the present time.
The honey-ants point to the same conclusion, and in Leptomyrmex we
still find one species, unicolor which preserves the ancient habits of the
^enus and lives only in the coastal rain-forests, while all the other
forms have become modified for storing liquid food during protracted
periods of heat and drought.
Like most other Dolichoderinte the species of Leptomyrmex are poor
in plastic characters. As Emery has shown, they are most easily dis-
tinguished by the shape of the head, though some of them present
useful characters in the shape of the thorax, petiole, gaster and tibije.
Sculpture and pilosity are very monotonous throughout the genus.
According to my observations, there is very little variation in color
among the members of a colony, but several and perhaps all of the
species exhibit one or more color varieties. These sometimes form a
series from pale to dark forms which may be repeated in another spe-
