AUSTRALIAN HONEY-ANTS. 267
Thorax long and slender, pronotum longer than the mesonotum, which
is longer than the epinotiim; epinotal declivity only about ^ as long
as the base. Petiole small, its node blunt, with a feeble longitudinal
impression on its summit, its anterior surface somewhat angulate
near the base in profile, straight above and shorter than the straight,
sloping posterior surface; ventral surface feebly convex behind.
Gaster elliptical in non-replete individuals. Femora and tibiae
distinctly compressed.
Whole body, including the mandibles, subopaque, very finely and
densely shagreened; mandibles with a row of coarse punctures along
the apical margin.
Whole surface appearing pruinose, because covered with extremely
fine, short, whitish pubescence. Hairs confined to mandibles and
clypeus, where they are very short and mostl}^ yellowish, and to the
venter, where they are much longer and black. Flexor surfaces of
tibiae with an irregular row of short black bristles.
Black, with faint bluish or greenish reflections; head, antennae,
tarsi, trochanters, knees and tips of tibiae rufotestaceous; palpi black.
N^ew South ]]'^ales: Blue Mts. (Beccari and E. D'Albertis) ; Sydney
(Lowne, L. M. D'Albertis) ; Katoomba, Blue Mts. (Wheeler) ; Jeno-
lan Caves, Blue Mts. (J. C. Wiburd) ; Mittagong (W. W. Froggatt).
Queensland: Rockhampton (Froggatt); Peak Downs (Museum
Godeffroy); Mackay (G. Turner).
This is the type of the genus. I have seen no specimens from
Queensland, and suspect that some of the records, like that of Turner,
may refer to L. varians var. ruficeps, which, owing to the great simi-
larity in color, is very easily mistaken for erythrocephalus.
In his work on the ants of the Sicilian amber (1891) Emery describes
and figures from some Queensland specimens what he takes to be the
male of this species. A male received from Staudinger and Bang-Haas,
from Cooktown on the Cape York peninsula, agrees with Emery's
description but I hesitate to regard either it or the specimens described
by Emery as males of erythrocephalus, because there are at least two
other species in northern Queensland (varians and unicolor) to either
of which they may be assigned with equal probability.
One small nest of L. erythrocephalus, which I found in the Kanimbla
Valley, near Katoomba, was in the ground under the edge of a boulder.
The gallery from the entrance descended only about four inches into
the soil and there enlarged into a chamber about five inches long,
three inches broad and an inch high. This contained about 60
workers with larvae. Only six of the workers were in the replete
condition.
