268 WHEELER.
2. Leptomyrmex erythrocephalus var. mandibularis var. nov.
Worker. Differing from the typical form in sculpture and color.
The thorax, petiole, gaster, femora and tibiae seem to be of a deeper
black, because the pubescence is more scanty. The mandibles,
clypeus, except its posterior border, frontal carinse and antennal
scapes are black; the anterior portion of the cheeks and a broad
median streak on the gula are fuscous, the funiculi brown with reddish
tips, the tarsi brown, the hind metatarsi somewhat darker. The
surface of the body and head is distinctly smoother and more shining
than in the typical form.
Described from a single specimen sent me many years ago by Mr.
H. Ashton from the vicinity of Sydney, New South Wales.
3. Leptomyrmex erythrocephalus var. decipiens var. nov.
Worker. Length 7-S mm.
Differing from the typical form and the foregoing variety in its
smaller size and peculiar coloration. The head, thorax, petiole, coxae,
trochanters, knees, tibial spurs and tarsi are rufotestaceous, the gaster
black, the femora and tibije dark brown, the tips of the antennal
scapes more or less infuscated.
Described from nine specimens taken at Gin-Gin, Queensland and
sent me many years ago by Mr. W. W. Froggatt. This variety,
which at first sight may be easily mistaken for a form of varians or
even more readily for nigrivcvtris var. tibialis, is here referred to ery-
throcephalus, because the head has precisely the same shape and the
femora and tibiae are flattened as in that species, whereas the tibiae
are more slender and terete in varians and the head is more slender
and conical behind. On the other hand, the head of tibialis, judging
from Emery's description, seems to be even broader than in the
typical nigriventris.
4. Leptomyrmex erythrocephalus var. cnemidatus var. nov.
Worker. Length 9 mm.
Differing from the var. decipiens only in the coloration of the legs
and antennae, the latter being rufotestaceous throughout, like the head,
thorax and petiole, while the dark brown of the former is confined to
