TRICHOMONAD FLAGELLATES. 291
been found to be of little \-alue for accurate morphological or cyto-
logical study.
The region of greatest infection is the junction of the large and
small intestine and the upper part of the rectum. Other organs of
the body have been examined including the lungs, spleen, liver,
genitalia, etc., but in no instance have flagellates been found outside
the digestive tract. Occasionally a few have been found in the
stomach and more often in the small intestine, but their normal
presence here has been uncertain in any case because of possible
contamination through dissection, and scanty in every case. In
the lower part of the rectum the parasites were usually not abundant.
The division cycle in these flagellates occurs at infrequent intervals
and is often not observed until the stained preparations are examined,
or at least until it is too late to make more smears from the same
material. It is therefore important when investigating the life
histories of these flagellates, to make as many preparations as the
material will allow, or as can be conveniently handled, even though
many of them are afterwards discarded.
Various fixing agents have been tried, Flemming's fluid and picro-
mercuric being excellent, but hot Schaudinn's fluid, with a few drops
of acetic acid added, has given the best results. The material to be
examined was smeared over the cover glass and this was placed, film
downward, on the surface of the fixing fluid, and left in that position
for about five minutes when it was inverted and placed in 50% alcohol
with successive changes to 100% alcohol. If the intestinal wall was
not covered with sufficient fluid it was moistened slightly with normal
salt solution before smearing it on the cover glass, and if the amount
of liquid on the cover glass was too great it was allowed to evaporate
till nearly but not quite dry before placing the smear in the fixing
fluid. The material was found to adhere to the cover glass more
firmly when it was not plunged beneath the surface of the fixing fluid
for the first few minutes at least, but remained floating on the surface.
By far the best results in staining were obtained with iron haema-
toxylin. Heidenhain's method was used at first but later alcoholic
solutions were substituted for the aqueous solutions, and these gave
very satisfactory results and saved time. The stock solution of ^%
iron haematoxylin was diluted with ten parts of 70% alcohol. For the
mordant the stock solution of 4% iron alum was diluted with ten
parts of 50% alcohol. The iron alum will not remain long in solution
in alcohol so the solution must be renewed frequently. The prepara-
tions were left in this for 10 minutes, rinsed in 50% alcohol and placed
