292 KOFOID AND SWEZY.
in the stain for the same length of time or longer. For very good
chromatin staining one hour gives better results. After staining,
decolorize in iron alum and wash in 50% alcohol for two hours, or in
water.
Intra vitam stains such as neutral red, methylene blue N, and new
methylene blue G G were used. Neutral red prepared with normal
salt solution gave best results.
For examining the living flagellates the cover-glass was sealed with
vaseline, after diluting the intestinal smear with normal salt solution.
All of the Protozoa common in the intestine have been kept alive
in this manner for about 24 hours, and in the case of Trichomonas
augusta, which is apparently the most resistant form, individuals
have been kept alive for several months without any change in the
medium, or removal of the cover glass. Other species of Trichomonas
have been kept alive for days or even a few weeks in the same manner.
Hanging drop preparations were tried but were not successful, the
protozoans dying within a very short time. Cultures were made by
placing a bit of the intestinal contents in a hollow ground culture
slide, filling the cavity with normal salt solution and sealing down the
cover glass with vaseline. Trichomonads have been kept alive in
these cells for six months with no apparent degeneration in the or-
ganisms. Cultures were also made by placing some of the intestinal
contents in small Stender dishes with a quantity of normal salt solution,
and also with sterile earth and boiled water from infusions. Most of
the parasitic protozoans could be cultivated in this way for a few
weeks and would then disappear. Ringer's solution was tried as a
culture medium but results were not so successful as with normal salt
solution. Cover glasses may be floated on the surface of these cul-
tures and removed at any time for examination, and when the adherent
flagellates are present they may be fixed and stained in the usual way.
For searching preparations and recording the location of division
stages a mechanical stage with verniers has been indispensable and
for the analysis of the finer structure a 100 watt Mazda lamp has
been used as the source of illumination, and Zeiss apochrom.atic 2 mm.
objective with Nos. 12 and 18 compensating oculars and Watson's
new No. 20 holoscopic eyepiece to secure the desired definition and
magnification.
We will now proceed to the discussion of mitosis and multiple
fission in four of the representative trichomonad flagellates, Tricho-
monas augusta Alexeieff, T. muris Hartmann, Eutrichomastix ser-
pentis (Dobell), and Tetratrichomonas proivazeJci (Alexeieff) treating
