TRICHOMONAD FLAGELLATES. 297
are shown the protean changes undergone by a single active vegeta-
tive individual in the course of about fifteen minutes while entrapped
in a viscous debris from the intestine but not adherent to the substrate.
The changes include the formation, but not detachment, of small
(Fig. C, 2) and large (Fig. C, 8) posterior blobs, the shifting of the
main cytoplasmic enlargement from the anterior to the posterior end
and back again (Fig. C, 5-9), and the protraction and retraction of
posterior pseudopodia. These facts seem to preclude the existence of
anything like a rigid pellicle, though Kuqzynski (1914) describes a
peripheral layer staining a light pink in Giemsa, and speaks of skeletal
fibrillae which are "ganz schwach angedeutet" but does not figure
them. We have found no structural evidence of such a pellicle except
the more homogeneous texture of the surface layer, and the line about
the cytostome, and none whatever of the "skeletal fibrillae" in this
layer.
Scattered throughout the cytoplasm are many spheroidal vacuoles
which move about, not by regular and continuous cyclosis but in
adjustment to the protean changes in form. They appear to be food
vacuoles or at least to be concerned in metobolism. Their contents
is a homogeneous highly refractive fluid and in life they obscure all
other structures more or less. We have not seen evidence of their
formation at the bottom of the cytostome nor of any circulation or
discharge. There is no constant differentiation in different regions
of the body. They vary in diameter from 0.5 to 4 fx, the larger vac-
uoles being found in the rounded up individuals in the prophase.
Compound vacuoles are occasionally seen.
In a few cases (PI. 3, Fig. 33) rod-like structures resembling bacteria
have been found in elongated food vacuoles, but beyond this there has
been no evidence that this species takes in solid food. Other species of
Trichomonas such as T. batrachorum, T. muris, and several as yet
undescribed species in our material, generally have solid particles and
bacteria in at least some of their food vacuoles. This absence of food
particles is also in sharp contrast to the condition in Tctratrichovionas
prowazeki (Alexeieff) which actively engulfs bacteria and other organic
material, and crowds its food vacuoles with such substances.
The vacuoles of individuals treated with a trace of methylene blue
N are not stained at all but small spheroidal granules in the cytoplasm
between the vacuoles stain (Fig. D, 2) diffusely and the animals die
within an hour. In dilute Janus green the nucleus, blepharoplast,
and chromatin granules in axostyle and cytoplasm stain quickly and
the animal dies in a few moments.
