NEW INDO-MALAYAN LABOULBENIALES. 15
length to tip of peritheciiim 450-500 n, greatest width 40 fx. Antheri-
dia about 12 /x. Appendages about 8 ju.
On Copfengis SJupardi Pasc, Island of Djilolo. No. 1779, M. C. Z.;
the type on the margin of the right elytron ; the variety on the inferior
surface of the thorax and prothorax.
The variety of this species above referred to, was found on the
same host, and differs in its smaller size, having a maximum length of
175 fjL, the members of its three cell-rows being half as numerous in
each series; none of the marginal cells separating more than two
appendiculate cells; the antheridia longer and somewhat more slender,
the appendages longer and more conspicuous, the tip of the perithe-
cium bent abruptly sidewise so that the apex appears to be evenly
rounded and suffused, although it is in reality hyaline and lateral
in position. Although the differences just mentioned appear to be
constant, the two forms resemble one another so closely that it has
not seemed desirable to separate them. The species is a very striking
and beautiful one, peculiar from the almost symmetrical lace-like
pattern of its cell-structure, and the very large numbers of conspicu-
ous purple-necked antheridia which it produces.
Rickia Onthophagi, nov. sp.
Rather long, hyaline to pale straw-yellow, structure subdeterminate,
foot relatively large. Basal cell longer than broad, slightly narrower
and faintly suffused below; its distal septum horizontal separating
it from two cells above which may be symmetrically paired or obliquely
related, the posterior cell placed higher and pointed below; the recep-
tacle above consisting of three cell-series; the basal cell of the axial
series either lying wholly above the basal cells of the two lateral series,
or intruded between them for half their length: the axial series con-
sisting of thirteen or fourteen cells of unequal length, but longer than
broad, the upper six or seven cells much smaller and nearly isodia-
metric, lying in close contact with the inner margin of the lower half of
the perithecium : the anterior row consisting of nine or ten cells extend-
ing to the base of the perithecium, each cell cutting off a vertical series
of subtriangular small cells, three or four from the upper to one from
the lowest members, all of which give rise to antheridia, or rarely to
very small appendages: the posterior series similar to the anterior,
consisting of about twelve to fourteen cells, and terminating in the
two-celled, somewhat prominent, divergent base of the primary
