302 KOFOID AND SWEZY.
larger chromatic basal rod and in appearance the projecting flagellum
is a continuation of both. That the posterior flagellum is, however,
the projecting part of the chromatic margin only, is proved by the
fact that when the latter is torn loose it carries the projecting flagellum
with it as its distal part.
The undulating membrane {und. m., Fig B) is a thin hyaline proto-
plasmic film, less granular than the general mass of cytoplasm, and
apparently composed only of its outermost layer or pellicle. It,
however, differs from the pellicular region elsewhere in that it does
not take on amoeboid activity ; always retaining, except as the animal
is disintegrating, its dift'erentiated and characteristic structure and
undulating movements even tliroughout the protean conditions of the
pre- and postmitotic phases and during the period of its own longi-
tudinal division. In its outer margin lies the posterior flagellum
differentiated as a chromatic margin and at its base the chromatic
basal rod. In evolution, origin, and function this membrane is the
result of the inclusion of an outgrowing postei'iorly directed flagellum,
whose activities raise the surface layer or pellicle above the level of
the cytoplasm and result in its differentiation.
The blepharoplast also gives rise to another deeply staining out-
growth, the chromatic basal rod (chr. bas. r., Fig. B) or parabasal
body, lying at the base of the undulating membrane. Although this
follows the spiral course of the membrane (PI. 1, Figs. 3, 5) it is never
thrown into undulations and appears to have no motor activity,
though subject to modifications in curvature and in location during
the postmitotic period, shifting position with the whole extranuclear
motor complex. With the undulating membrane it lies opposite to
the cytostome, that is, in the dorsal side of the body and gives to that
side, especially in rounded-up phases and in fixed material, a greater
convexity than the ventral. In this curvature the axostyle generally
shares. This chromatic basal rod is of uniform caliber throughout
and takes nuclear stains generally. It does not, even under extreme
decolorization, break up into chromatic blocks though in its origin
by outgrowth its distal end may at first form by the fusion of fine
chromatic granules.
The chromatic basal rod or parabasal body is found apparently
throughout the genus Trichomonas. It is figured in T. lacertae by
Prowazek (1904), in T. muris by Wenyon (1907), in T. bafrachorum
by Dobell (1909) as a thread and row of adherent chromatin granules,
in T. eberthi by Martin and Robertson (1911), in T. augusta by Alex-
eieff (1913), in T. caviae, T. muris, and T. augusta by Kuczynski
