TRICHOMONAD FLAGELLATES. 303
(1914), in T. sanguisugae by Alexeieff (1914a), and in T. granulosa
(probably only a moribund T. augusta) by the same author (1914b) as
a row of chromatic granules.
We believe that this slender elongated chromatic organ heretofore
called the chromatic basal rod, chromatic basis, chromatic line, or
cote, this chromatic basal rod of Trichomonas is really homologous
with the stout deeply staining parabasals which Janicki (1911) de-
scribes in certain other flagellates such for example as those of Deves-
covina and Parajoenia in both of which they take their origin from the
blepharoplast on the side of the axostyle next to the posteriorly
directed flagellum, though they do not run posteriorly parallel to it
in either case.
In the isolated and casual figure of Trichomonas batrachorum of
Janicki (1911) an additional stout club-shaped strvicture attached to
the blepharoplast is figured which is interpreted by him as the para-
basal body. It is also figured in Tetratrichomonas prowazeki by
Alexeieff (1910) and a comparable structure is also found in a species
with slender axostyle described by Martin and Robertson (1911) as
Trichomotias gallinarum which we here refer to the genus Tetra-
trichomonas, where, because of its four flagella, it properly belongs.
In more recent articles Alexeieff (1913, 1914a) again describes
and figures it as an inconstant "chapelet de grains siderophiles "
or "cote," and calls it the parabasal body alongside the anterior
end of the chromatic basal rod.
Kuczynski (1914) finds in Trichomonas caviae a stout deeply staining
rod or a line of heavy granules adjacent to the chromatic basal line
in some individuals, usually in all in a given host, but not in those
from another host. He does not find it in T. muris, and only occasion-
ally in T. augusta. He regards this as the true and only parabasal
body, but not as the new chromatic basal line, or new parabasal, since
he does not recognize its transformation into that structure. He is
inclined accordingly to regard the parabasal body in trichomonads as
an ephemeral organelle.
The homology of this structure is thus rendered somewhat perplex-
ing by these interpretations of Janicki, Alexeieff, and Kuczynski,
who distinguish not only the darkly stained chromatic basal line below
the membrane l)ut in addition a club-shaped deeply stained structure
which they call the parabasal body, adjacent to and also attached to
the blepharoplast. Dobell (1909) who worked o\er T. batrachorum
with care does not mention or figure the parabasal of these authors.
One of Alexeiefl^'s figures (1913, Fig. VIIc) shows Trichomonas augusta
