304 KOFOID AND SWEZY
with apparently but a single undulating membrane, but with two
nuclei, two blepharoplasts with flagella, and two chromatic basal
rods, a paradesmose between the blepharoplasts, and apparently one
axostyle. From each blepharoplast, there arises a stout "organe
parabasale de Janicki" parallel to the chromatic basal rod. We
interpret this as an early stage in multiple mitosis in the initial phase
of a second mitosis and the two "organes parabasales" as new out-
growing parabasals indicative of a coming second mitosis. That is,
they are parabasals, but so are also the chromatic basal rods of which
they themselves are only the initial stages. It is apparently to this
young parabasal that Alexeieff referred in an earlier paper (1909a)
but regarding it (baguette recourbee) at that time as a characteristic
of the Trichomonas of salamanders as contrasted with those of frogs,
and as a part of the undulating membrane. He makes, however, no
further reference to this interpretation in later papers.
In a series of preparations of this species we have traced nearly all
stages of mitosis, and in hundreds of individuals find no trace of para-
basals as stout as those figured by Alexeieff, but only somewhat more
slender ones at this stage of outgrowth. We conclude therefore that
normally there is regularly no structure so large as Janicki and Alexeieff
figure as their parabasal and that this structure, large or small, is the
outgrowing new chromatic basal rod (PI. 2, Figs. 11-16) which they
interpret with some adjacent chromatic granules as the sole and only
parabasal. If this be true, Janicki's (1911), Alexeieff 's (1913), and
Kuczynski^s (1914) interpretation is then only partially correct.
The organ which they call the parabasal is only the first step in the
origin of the new parabasal in the prophase of mitosis. The true
parabasal includes both this and the organ which is regarded by them
as distinct, namely the chromatic basal rod of the undulating mem-
brane, and the inconstancy and variation noted by them is explained
by the fact that they were dealing with a growing organelle.^
1 In a paper received after the completion of this manuscript Janicki (1915)
repeats his earher figure of Trichomonas augusia showing the stout " parabasal,"
and adds an incomplete new one (his text figure 13) showing what we interpret
to be the paradesmose, also the slender parent parabasal, and a stout daughter
one. It is evident from figures and context that he has not worked over an
extensive series of preparations of this genus. He regards T. augusta as possi-
bly the same as T. bntrachorum to which species he states his material to belong.
We find both species, and regard them as distinct, the latter havmg food
vacuoles with contents, a more slender axostyle, and a very general absence
of both axostylar and cytoplasmic chromidia. In this species whose mitosis
we have also followed, the chromatic basal rod or parabasal in our sense, is
even more slender than it is in T. augusta. We have not, as yet, seen the
