TRICHOMONAD FL.\GELLATES. 305
Bensen's (1909, PI. 9) figures of T. mgiiialis indicate an axostyle
formed by a continuation of the rhizoplast through the nucleus and
karyosome to the posterior end of the body. This interpretation
seems improbable in the light of our own results and of the later
figures of this species given by Brumpt (1913). It is probable that
the structure here interpreted as rhizoplast-axostyle is in reality the
chromatic basal rod lying beneath the nucleus, and that Bensen has
found neither rhizoplast nor axostyle. In so far as structure and
position go this latter interpretation is equally open and on compara-
tive grounds practically certain.
It is also possible that the structure interpreted by Brumpt (1913) as
the axostyle in T. vaginalis and T. intestinalis of man is in reality the
chromatic basal rod or parabasal. Its stainability, position, and
structure indicate this interpretation. The axostyle in T. vaginalis
as figured by Brumpt lies on the opposite side of the nucleus from the
undulating membrane, and bends about it. It is a slender deeply
staining thread, with one liae of chromidia on either side of it in the
distal part of its course and is itself at times resolved in part into
detached chromidia in a single or a double line. In T. intestinalis
the same author also figures a chromatic axostyle which lies between
the nucleus and the undulating membrane. In position and structure
it is very much like the chromatic basal rod of T. augusta, a structure
which would seem to be absent here if we should accept Brumpt's
interpretation and call this the axostyle, unless one of the "filaments
de soutien" which he mentions but does not figure, represents this
basal rod. However, comparison of existing figures of these species
with those of Brumpt certainly reveals the probability that neither
one of these chromatic structures is the axostyle and that they are
both really the chromatic basal rods. The position of the true hyaline
axostyle of T. vaginalis may be represented by the projecting point
in his figure 119, 2, and of T. intestinalis in a similar point in his
figure 120, 1 and 3. The displacement of the undulating membrane
initial stages of the formation of the new parabasal in this species, nor have we
found the stout condition which Janicki figures as his parabasal. We find no
sufficient evidence in his later paper to modify our earUer conclusion that the
chromatic basal rod of Trichomonas is the homologue of the parabasal of the
Trichonymphida as described by Janicki (1911) and that the organ which he
interprets in Trichomonas as the parabasal is only an unusual or abnormal con-
dition of the outgrowing new parabasal at mitosis. This interpretation of ours
is supported not only by our own observations but also by the comparative
absence of the parabasal of Trichomonas of Janicki in nearly all of the litera-
ture of this group.
