306 KOFOID AND SWEZY.
far from the chromatic basal rod in his figure 119, 1, 2, and 4, is quite
possible under the conditions of preparation of smears. Brumpt's
interpretation of his excellent figures, as well as our own, requires
further in\estigation before either can l)e finally accepted for these
species.
In all species in which this chromatic basal rod is present it lies
along the base of the undulating membrane. In certain imperfectly
known species such as Trichomonas hominis Donne, T. 'vaginalis
(Davaine), T. limacis Dujardin, T. suis Grube and Delafond, T.
tritotds Alexeieff, and T. parva Alexeieff, it has not been adequately
described, if at all. From its uniform presence in all species of tricho-
monads having an undulating membrane which have been adequately
investigated, it seems probable that it will be found to be co-extensive
with that structure in this group of flagellates. Further light on its,
homologies is suggested by the fact that it lies in the same undulating
membrane with the intracytoplasmic part of the posterior flagellum,
originates from the same blepharoplast with it, runs in the same direc-
tion, and differs from it only in its deeper location, larger caliber, and
in the fact that it does not project beyond the cytoplasm. In function
also it differs in the absences of undulating waves of contraction.
There is thus much to favor the view that this chromatic basal rod
might also be regarded as an intracytoplasmic flagellum parallel to
the marginal flagellum.
However, the fact that it has no motor function militates against
this view. It belongs rather to the series of intracytoplasmic chroma-
tic structures in the Trichonymphida elaborated near the blepharo-
plast and nucleus and connected with the former by a fiber. Janicki
(1911) called these structures the parabasal bodies. Homologous
structures were found by x\lexeiefl' (1911a) in Heteromita lacertae
and called by him "batonnets siderophiles " and also in Monocerco-
monas bufonis where the name "corps siderophile" was used to
designate them. There is a strong probability that the so-called
kinetonucleus of the Trypanosomidae and related forms belongs in
this same series, provided we recognize as distinct from the kineto-
nucleus the blepharoplast at the base of the flagellum adjacent to the
kinetonucleus.
The dift'erences in form between chromatic basal rot!, corjjs sidero-
phile, parabasal body, and Idnetonucleus are correlated to some
extent at least with other structural differences. The well-developed
undulating membrane in Trichomonas is correlated with an elongated
parabasal at its base. In the absence of such a localized motor area
