TRICHOMONAD FLAGELLATES. 307
the parabasal or homologue is often more condensed (not, howe^'er,
in the trypanosonies) and hes nearer the blepharoplast and nucleus as
in Parajoenia.
A. discussion of the grounds for including the kinetonucleus of
trypanosonies in this series will appear in a later paper by the junior
author. Should this homology here suggested be accepted as estab-
lished by later investigations it may be desirable to apply the term
parabasal to the whole series of homologous structures, reserving
the special names for purposes of differentiation among them.
The function of this chromatic basal rod, or parabasal, is indicated,
as Janicki (1911) has suggested, by its relationship to the incessantly
active undulating membrane throughout its whole length. Its micro-
chemical reaction, at least to a number of stains, is the same as
that of the blepharoplast from which it and the motor organelles take
their origin. It has, therefore, some relation to the motor activity of
the undulating membrane and probably one similar to that which the
blepharoplast bears to the activity of the flagella. It is stock of
deeply staining chromatic substance attached immediately at the
base of the region of maximum motor activity in the organism, and
is connected with blepharoplast and nucleus where such substance,
or allied substances, are formed. Its function is not primarily skeletal
or supporting, but rather connected with the metabolism, of, and
possibly also with the control of the motor activity. Analogy to the
neuromotor apparatus of Diplodinium as described by Sharp (1914)
is suggested by the structural relations.
The parabasal body in Trichomonas and Tetratrichomonas is a
relatively long slender body below the undulating membrane. How-
ever, in the nearly related Trichonymphida, in which no undulating
membrane occurs, the parabasal is condensed in a stout p^Tiform
organelle which together with the rest of the extranuclear motor
apparatus is developed in connection with each of the many nuclei as
for example in Stephanonympha. Here also at mitosis the new
organelle is formed by outgrowth from the blepharoplast and is
attached to one daughter blepharoplast while the old parabasal is
attached to the other. In this connection it should be noted that
Dcvcscovina driata Foa, a heteroinastigote flagellate with three an-
terior and one trailing flagellum and a large parabasal wound spirally
around the axostyle (see Janicki, 1911, Fig. 1) properly belongs in the
Polymastigina near Eutrichomastix.
The axostyle (ax. Fig. B.) is a stout hyaline, club-shaped structure
lying in the axis of the body. Its anterior end, for about 0.2-0.3 of
