308 KOFOID AND SWEZY.
the total length, is enlarged to 1.2-3 times its diameter in the shaft
which is of nearly uniform caliber, though it tapers gradually in some
cases (PI. 1, Fig. 1), may enlarge at the point of emergence (PI. 1,
Fig. 10), or may be constricted near its middle and enlarged again
distally (PI. 1, Fig. 7). Its diameter in the enlarged capitulum is
0.12-0.07 of its length, and in the shaft 0.02-0.045. Its distal end
in the normal free-swimming forms (PI. 1, Fig. 3) is exposed for about
0.2 of its length but extent of this decreases in the mitotic period
(PI. 2, Figs. 11-19) even to complete inclusion in the cytoplasm, and
in cases of posterior blob formation (PI. 1, Fig. 2, and Fig. C, G-8)
the distal end may be some distance within its margin. This end is
attenuate to a sharp point, but often somewhat abruptly as in a
pencil.
The axial position of the axostyle gives to it a nearly straight form
in most vegetative stages. Its enlarged capitulum pushes aside the
nucleus, abuts immediately upon the dorsal side of the cytostome and
at its apex is attached to the blepharoplast (PI. 1, Fig. 1) which in
some instances (PL 1, Fig. 2) even indents this region. This axial
organ, however, is very frequently curved with the convexity parallel
to that of the chromatic basal rod and undulating membrane (PI. 1,
Fig. 1). This is especially noticeable in individuals which are rounding
up (PI. 1, Fig. 8). A comparison of the Figures on Plates 1 and 2
shows at once that the axostyle cannot be considered as a rigid fixed
structure but rather as one subject to a high degree of mobility, or at
least of flexibility.
The body of the axostyle consists of homoii :neous hyaline sub-
stance which shows no internal fibrillar structure, has a more or less
sharply defined periphery, and contains from 15-90 deeply staining
chromatin granules or axostylar chromidia {ax. chr., Fig. B). These
are generally less numerous in the vegetative phase and more so prior
to division. There is a very considerable variation in numbers in
approximately similar stages (PI. 2, Figs. 16, 18). These granules
are 0.3-0.5 micron in diameter, generally spheroidal, and tend to be
equidistant from each other in distribution as though under mutual
repulsion. They are most numerous anteriorlj^ in the capitulum of
the axostyle and when but few are present (Pi. 1, Fig. 3) they are
restricted to this region. As they become more numerous they extend
distally to the level of emergence of the axostyle from the cytoplasm,
but we have never found them beyond this level. In a number of
instances one, two, or three pairs of posterior axostylar granules
(post. ax. gr., Fig. B) lie (PI. 1, Figs. 1, 5, 7) in the cytoplasm or in the
