TRICHOMONAD FLAGELLATES. 311
forms. In moribund individuals tiie anterior fiagella also become
very adhesive and fuse in one short protoplasmic rod which continues
to beat and may fuse laterally with the cytoplasm or accumulate a
mass of adherent particles. The tip of the axostyle might be called
an organ of fixation in this accidental or casual sense but not in a
normal and essential one.
It was only after long observation that we were convinced that the
true function of the axostyle is motor, but having once seen it in full
motor activity, all doubt as to its function is at once dispelled. It is
not merely a rigid elastic body, subject to passive curvature by the
constraint of contracting cytoplasm about it. It is rather a powerful
motor organ which comes into function when the animal is on a sub-
strate, and doubtless plays an impoitant part in the life of the organ-
ism in the mucus of the intestinal surface. As is well known the
organisms penetrate the crypts and Lieberkuhn's glands, and division
stages are to be sought in smears from the wall rather than in foecal
contents. The intestinal surface with its coating of glandular secre-
tion and the proteid-rich chyme which becomes ever flenser as its
soluble proteids diffuse through this intestinal wall, constitute the
medium most favorable for the growth and division of these flagellates.
The axostyle is an organ for locomotion on the intestinal surface and
in the viscous medium immediately covering it.
One may watch the free-swimming stages for days and never see
the motor activity of this organelle which is held in a rigid axial posi-
tion thus giving emphasis to the skeletal interpretation. Nor is it
to be seen in culture slides which have been made for even a short
time, since individuals accumulate on the substrate as they become
adhesive and moribund, and such changes in the axostyle as occur in
these individuals are slow and far from characteristic. It is best seen
in freshly made slides with little fluid prepared directly from the fresh
mucous surface. Search of such a preparation will usually reveal
some individuals in intense axostylar activity. These are usually
somewhat rounded up (PI. 1, Fig. 10) and are often of the larger size.
They are on the surface of the glass with fiagella and undulating
membrane in full activity. In addition to this the axostyle itself
keeps up a vigorous lashing from side to side, sometimes constant,
sometimes intermittent, changing its position actively as a stout
flagellum from one side to the other, bending and curving as it lashes
a))out (PI. 1, Figs. 8, 9), now parallel to the membrane and now away
from it, with constant readjustments of the vacuoles among which it
moves. It is impossible to say that the point of emergence from the
