312 KOFOID AND SWEZY.
cytoplasm is a fixed one in the pellicle. The protruding tip, which in
some cases is quite elongated (PI. 1, Fig. 8) is also independently
active at times waving back and forth in an arc of 180° or describing
the surface of a cone of rotation of varying angle. In all of this
activity it is strikingly suggestive of a flagellum constrained in its
movements by the enveloping cytoplasm, especially at the point of
emergence, and by the mass of its own substance but nevertheless
independently and vigorously motile. Some progression over the
substrate may occur, by reason of the rotation of the body, but the
whole surface is evidently more or less adhesive. Under these condi-
tions the axostyle is anything but an organ of fixation.
From a functional standpoint the axostyle is thus a stout, largely
intracytoplasmic flagellum for locomotion in a \'iscid medium.
Structurally it has the same connections with the blepharoplast that
other flagella have. It does not stain as they do, especially within
the cytoplasm.^ Both the chromatic margin and the chromatic
basal rod stain an intense black, but the axostyle is hyaline and the
least stained of all parts of the organism. It may be, however, that
the axostylar chromidia within it ha\e segregated in themselves the
stainable substance which is continuous in the other structures named.
It should be remembered in this connection that the chromatic basal
rod also may be at times made up of chromidial blocks, as noted by
Martin and Robertson (1911) for Trichomastix (jallinarum. The
tendency for the chromidia to assume an axial position in the axostyle
(PI. 1, Figs. 5, S) is also significant in this connection as is also the ten-
dency for the distal part of the axostyle just within the cytoplasm
to have regularly grouped chromidial granules. When tlie axostyle
protrudes a considerable distance, as it sometimes does, these gran-
ules may be seen adhering to it. Additional structural confirmation
of the flagellar homology of the axostyle in the trichomonads is to be
seen in the fact that the projecting parts of these structures in Hex-
amitus (= Octomitus) and Lamblia are posterior flagella comparable
in appearance to that projecting from the undulating membrane in
Trichomonas. We may conclude then that the axostyle of Trichomo-
nas is an intracytoplasmic flagellum highly specialized for motor
activity on the viscous mucous surface of the intestine.
The blepharoplast (hi., Fig. B) is a spheroidal body lying very
close to the surface near the anterior end of the body dorsal to the
cytostome and at its Aery margin. It also abuts against and may
even appear to be indented into the head of the axostyle. It is usually
about 0.5 jjL in diameter, varying possibly with the degree of extraction
