16 THAXTER.
appendage. Perithecium one half free on the inner side, wholly free
externally, concolorous, the l)ody long elliptical or broader below, the
tip abruptly distinguished, short, broad, purplish Ijrown, except the
bluntly rounded subhyaline apex. Autheridia relatively long, curved,
sharp and beak-like. Appendages minute, hardly distinguishable
and very few in number. Perithecium G5-100 X 28-35 /jl. Spores
50 X 7 ju (in perithecium). Antheridia 15 X 5 /i. Appendages 4 X
3.5 M- Total length to tip of perithecium 260-340 X 40-44 m-
On the inferior tip of the aI)domen of Onthophagus sp. No. 2094,
Peradeniya, Ceylon.
This species which is the first member of the family reported on
Scarabeidae, presents no very striking peculiarities. It is distin-
guished by its very numerous antheridia and scanty minute appen-
dages.
Rickia compressa, nov. sp.
Straight or slightly curved, rather stout, subsymmetrical, wholly
hyaline. Basal cell very small, subtriangular, the subbasal broader,
flattened, sometimes obliquely divided, followed by two superposed
pairs of cells above which the receptacle is triseriate; the middle row
consisting of from thirteen to fifteen cells, the eight lower squarish,
the upper ones extending along the posterior margin of the perithecium
against which they are flattened, the two to three distal ones free
externally above the insertion of the primary appendage; the free
divergent basal cell of which terminates the posterior row of nine to
twelve cells; the anterior row^ consisting of eight or nine cells, its
external margin evenly continuous with that of the perithecium, to the
base of which it extends: a variable but small number of the cells of
both the anterior and posterior rows separate a small cell distally and
externally, which form the basal cells of the hyaline slightly tapering
secondary appendages. Perithecium externally free, straight, erect,
rather stout, but slightly inflated, the tip abruptly distinguished, com-
pressed, symmetrical, ending in a blunt nearly symmetrical apex.
Perithecium, 00-75 X 20-22 /x, not including marginal cells of the
median series. Receptacle, to tip of primary appendage-cell, 140-
155 /x. Secondary appendages 20-40 X 4-5 /x- Total length to tip
of perithecium 175-200 X 32-35 yu-
On the antennae and prothorax of Lrpfochirus sp., vel aff. No.
1417, Java, (Rouyer).
This species is described from four specimens in good condition but
