TRICHOMONAD FLAGELLATES. 313
of the stain. Kuczynski (1914) holds that it Hes between the anterior
€nds of two "fibrillae" which constitute the axostyle. The figure
cited in support (his pi. 16, fig. 101) shows in our opinion the edge of
the cytostome rather than fibrillae about the blepharoplast.
In our figures the blepharoplast is large prior (PI. 1, Fig. 4) to the
formation of the intranuclear cloud and small thereafter (PI. 1, P'igs.
2, 3, 5). It is a single mass except in cases where mitosis is impending
or in progress. From it spring directly without an;v' interruption in
structure or stainability the chromatic margin and the chromatic
basal rod of the undulating membrane. It is also directly connected
with the axostyle and the three anterior flagella.
In macerated individuals (Fig. D, 4) a delicate strand, the rhizo-
plast {rh., Fig. B) may be seen to connect it with the nuclear mem-
brane. This is the least chromatic part of the extranuclear apparatus
and we have been able to demonstrate it only in macerating individuals.
The rhizoplast described by Bensen (1909) in T. vaginalis at the head
of a so-called axostyle, is, together with this axostyle, in reality the
chromatic basal rod in our opinion, and is extranuclear.
The extranuclear apparatus, largely chromatic in nature, consisting
of the blepharoplast and the organs above named which are connected
with it, constitute a structurally connected imit, the extranuclear
chromatic motor apparatus.
The cytoplasmic chromidia {cyt. chr., Fig. B) lie in the cytoplasm
between the vacuoles. In size, form and stainability they are like
the axostylar chromidia. We find no evidence of their passage from
the axostyle into the cytoplasm. They are not always present, being
absent in many vegetative individuals (PI. 1, Figs. 1^) and most
abundant prior to and during mitosis (Pis. 2, 3), appearing in the
cytoplasm with the extranuclear chromidial cloud (PI. 1, Figs. 5, 9).
The vegetative phases of Trichomonas augusta are found in the
intestinal contents and in cultures. The different phases of mitosis
may be found in large numbers in smears made from the intestinal
wall directly. We will now proceed to follow the process of division.
This is of two distinct types, binary and multiple fission and both
occur in this species and in trichomonads generally on the intestinal
wall and may be followed in smears from that region. We are not at
present able to relate either process to any definite phase of sexual
reproduction. We find as yet no conclusive evidence that either leads
to gamete formation by maturation divisions, or that either follows
zygote formation or fertilization. Detection of these processes must
await, it seems, the unravelling of the history of the true trichomonad
cysts.
