314 KOFOID AND SWEZY.
Binary Fission in Trichomonas augusta.
This occurs by mitosis in which we may distinguish phases com-
parable with tliose in metazoan cell division in the nature and results
of the processes carried on in nucleus and cytoplasm, but differing
somewhat in their respective chronologies, in minor details of arrange-
ment and in relative development of the achromatic organelles, from
mitosis in the metazoan cells.
JMoreo^'er, the sequence of changes in the individual parts of the
organism does not proceed with the same relative rapidity in every
division. The extranuclear structures especially exhibit a considera-
ble variation in this respect. The parts are also mobile in the cyto-
plasm to a high degree with the result that a great diversity of pictures
of the process of mitosis is here presented.
The prophase (PI. 1, Figs. 2, 3, 5, 7-10, PI. 2, Figs. 11-12) is that
in which the chromosomes are organized out of the karyosome and
chromatin network of the nucleus. The organization of the spindle
is here much simpler than in the Metazoa and also progresses less
rapidly than that of the chromosomes.
The first indications of mitosis appear in the development of a
diffuse intranuclear chromidial cloud (PI. 1, Figs. 2, 3, 5, 8) which
fills the nucleiis and is not easily removed by decolorization. Follow-
ing this stage this intranuclear material disappears and the chromatin
of the nucleus is aggregated in a ragged tangled chromatin thread or
skein (PL 1, Fig. 9) Ijnng in the now unstained nuclear sap. Sur-
rounding the nucleus at this stage is a halo formed by a vacuole-free
zone of fine granular perinuclear cytoplasm which stains more deeply
here than elsewhere. At the same time the number of axostylar
chromidia has considerably increased (PI. 1, Figs. 5, 9) and the first
cytoplasmic chromidia have made their appearance. This extra-
nuclear cloud has been previously noted only by Bensen (1909) in
T. vaginalis, though he does not connect it with chromidial formation,
and by Alexeieff (1914a) casually in T. sanguisuc/ae. It later dis-
appears entirely as the chromidia in axostyle and cytoplasm increase
in numl)er.
Individuals in this stage are generally rounded up, and are often
large, though mitosis is by no means confined to large cells (cf. Figs.
24 and 29). When small ones divide they also round up. The
axostyle is more or less withdrawn within the cytoplasm in these
rounded stages and is often much curved in fixed material, evidently
