TRICHOMONAD FLAGELLATES. 315
caught by the fixative during the period of \'igorous lashing on the
extreme limit of the outward stroke (PI. 1, Figs. 8-10).
The first organelle to be reproduced is the chromatic margin of the
undulating membrane (Fig. E and PI. 1, Figs. 6-10) which splits from
the blepharoplast distally to the tip of the posterior flagellum. In
view of the fact that the new anterior flagella and the chromatic
basal rod are formed by growing out and not by splitting it may be
questioned whether or not the interpretation of this process as one of
splitting is correct. It rests upon the fact that the two supposedly
daughter marginal threads at first lie close together, show parallel
undulations, and posteriorly merge in the parent thread. Difi'erences
in diameter between parent and daughter filaments which result from
splitting are in the ration of 1.4: 1, and are plainly detectable with
Watson's number 20 holoscopic eyepiece. In four cases (Fig. E, 6-9)
splitting has progressed beyond the end of the chromatic basal rod,
showing that the filament, even in the extracytoplasmic posterior
flagellum also splits. No evidence of a secondary twisting together
of free ends is apparent in this preparation, the distal part appearing
to be the still undivided parent flagellum.
As the splitting of this filament passes the point of union of the
marginal filament and basal rod (Fig. E, 6-9) one daughter filament
still adheres to the end of the rod and the other detaches a minute
granule from its tip as it splits off. The left filament is usually the
adherent one (Fig. E, 7) but the right has been found in this position
in two cases (Fig. E, 6). This chromatic marginal filament is the
intracytoplasmic part of the posteriorly directed flagellum. At
mitosis the new anterior flagella and the chromatic basal rod are
formed by outgrowth and the axostyle and marginal filament by
division. * On a -priori grounds we should expect the posterior flagellum
to arise in the same manner as the anterior ones. The process is,
however, clearly one of longitudinal splitting in form at least, as above
shown. These facts seem to indicate that homologous derivatives of
the blepharoplast may arise by different methods and the precise
method of origin of these organelles is without morphological signifi-
cance and possibly subject to change according to its extra- or intra-
cytoplasmic position.
The longitudinal division of the undulating mem!)rane below the
chromatic margin progresses slowly as shown by the proximity of the
daughter marginal filaments and by their common undulations in
many preparations. It is accomplished, however, before the new
chromatic basal rod is formed as will be seen in Figure 8 (PI. 1) in
