TRICHOMONAD FLAGELLATES. 317
which one of the daughter membranes has been detached in making
the smear. The two membranes are complete even to the posterior
flageUum but the new chromatic basal rod has not as yet made its
appearance.
The chromatic basal rod does not originate as does the marginal
flagellum by splitting but grows out distally from the blepharoplast
along the base of the divided undulating membrane (PI. 2, Figs. 11-18)
and ultimately comes to lie (Figs. 17, 19) in the base of one of the
membranes. In some cases the two rods appear to be united distally
as though they too originated by splitting. If this be the case it is
possible that the detachment of the short rod from the long one of
Figures 11 to 18 is the result of disturbance of relations in making the
preparations, but the mass of evidence is overwhelmingly in favor of
the detached outgrowth of the new rod.
When the two rods or parabasals are completed, the two undulating
membranes become more or less widely detached distally (PI. 2, Fig.
17), preserving their original connection only in the blepha^'oplast.
With the division (PI. 2, Fig. 17) and the migration of the daughter
blepharoplasts to the poles of the spindle (PI. 2, Figs. 19-23) the two
undulating membrane complexes are finally detached one from the
other, save by the connecting paradesmose. In some instances there
is a marked disturbance of the normal relation seen in Figures 2U and
22, in that the daughter blepharoplasts (PI. 2, Fig. 19) or basal granules
after the division of the blepharoplast into basal granule and centro-
some, are more or less widely detached from polar relations to the
spindle (Fig. 21). We are unable to determine whether this results
from the protean activity of the organism in this period or from the
disturbance in making smears. There is no evidence in the prepara-
tions of mutilation of the body in these cases of disturbed relations.
The anterior flag ella are produced not by division but by outgrowth
of new flagella from the blepharoplast. These sprouting flagella are
difficult to detect and are probably o\'erlooked in a number of our
figures. They do not all arise at the same time but apparently in
sequence during mitosis. The first one appears in the prophase
(PI. 1, Figs. 7-11, PI. 2, Figs. 12, 15, 19). When the blepharoplast
divides (Fig. 19) one daughter takes two of the old flagella and the
other the one and the new flagellum. Another new flagellum is then
grown out from each daughter blepharoplast making tliree flagella
arising from each, the normal equipment of the vegetative phase.
In Figure 19 a second new flagellum is sprouting from the blepharo-
plast at the left, but not as yet from that at the right. The full
