TRICHOMONAD FLAGELLATES. 321
augusta. There seems to be a subsequent but temporary telosynaptic
fusion of the split chromosomes at the time of the first appearance of
the equatorial plate (PI. 2, Fig. 20).
Metaphase and Amphiaster.
No arrangement in an equatorial plate occurs until the daughter
blepharoplasts have migrated to the poles of the ellipsoidal nucleus
(PI. 2, Figs. 20-21). Such a plate is suggested in Figure 13, but only
four pairs are here in line, and no spindle is present to contain the plate.
This is only a chance grouping and not a true equatorial plate.
Amphiaster Stage.
The equatorial plate is formed apparently only after all of the
chromosomes are in this "telosynaptic" relation (PI. 2, Figs. 20, 21).
In the few spindles we have found in this stage there are but five
chromatin masses, rather stout (Fig. 20) or tapering (Fig. 21) towards
either end, thickest at the middle, and showing there no trace of any
central zone of fusion or separation where from previous conditions
we may suppose "telosynaptic" fusion to have occurred. There is
for this condition of the chromosomes, if it be the normal and regular
sequence following that of parallel split chromosomes, but one expla-
nation, namely that the early splitting is followed by a later "telo-
synaptic" fusion in the equatorial plate. The relations of the daughter
chromosomes in Figures 12 to 19 support this interpretation. Coupled
with this is the fact that the individuals with split chromosomes
present collateral evidence in other organelles of an early phase of
mitosis, whereas this evidence in Figures 20 and 20a, indicates that
these are later stages. There is, however, another possible sequence,
namely that in some individuals represented by Figures 20 and 21
there has been no previous splitting and the elongated chromosomes
part transversely. If this be true we have two types of division of
chromosomes in the one species and one of these is of the normal
type by longitudinal splitting and the other by an exceptional and
unique type (in non-maturation divisions) of transverse division.
This is possible especially in view of the fact that we are dealing with
parasitic organisms subject to the action of the antitoxins of their
hosts and therefore to disturbances in the normal processes of growth.
