322 KOFOID AND SWEZY.
Except for the spherical form of these individuals with transversely
dividing chromosomes, there are no evidences of approaching mori-
bundity. But the cells with the other type of division are also rounded
up. It is thus possible, but inherently improbable, that these cells
represent an unusual type of division of the chromosomes, rather than
a stage of temporary telosynaptic fusion subsequent to an earlier
longitudinal splitting.
A precocious longitudinal splitting or perhaps more precisely an
emergence of the chromosomes from the chromatic net or spireme in
the form of threads apparently split longitudinally has been described
for the vegetative cells of certain higher plants by Gregorie (1906)
and for Allium and Vicia by Lundegardh (1912). Flemming long ago
(1891) noted it in the somatic cells of the salamander and Dehorne
(1911) in cells of annelids and trematodes, but it has not been promi-
nent in recent cytological investigations of metazoan somatic cells.
In none of these cases, however, is precocious splitting followed by a
telos\Tiaptic fusion on the equatorial plate such as we have suggested
here for Trichomonas, though Gregoire figures a re-fusion of the split
chromosomes before the equatorial plate stage.
The acliromatic spindle is feebly developed. It consists of a few
faint fibrils within the intact nuclear membrane which pass from the
chromosomes to the centrosomes or blepharoplasts at the poles of
the now somewhat elongated, broadly fusiform, or ellipsoidal nucleus.
These spindle fibers are more distinct near the centrosomes and as the
chromosomes part (PI. 2, Fig. 23) faint interzonal fibers appear
between them. There is no satisfying evidence of the formation of
astral rays in the cytoplasm at the poles about the blepharoplasts or
the centrosomes. A faint starlike structure (PI. 2, Fig. 21) seen in one
instance in the cytoplasm about one of the centrosomes is not of
general occurrence.
The paradesmose is formed between the two divided blepharoplasts
as they migrate to their polar positions in the spindle. Structurally
it is a fiber of uniform caliber lying at all times outside of the nuclear
membrane and is directly continuous with the blepharoplasts which it
connects. It stains an intense black as do other intracytoplasmic
derivatives of the blepharoplasts.
This organ has been called the axostyle (x\chsenstab) by Prowazek
(1904) who discovered it, since he confused it with the development
of that structure. Dobell (1909) also fell into the same error of
regarding the axostyle as derived from the chromatic fiber joining
the daughter blepharoplasts in mitosis, saying "the axostyle is the
