TRICHOMONAD FLAGELLATES. 323
homologue of the central spindle, each being a centrodesmus." This
homology to the central spindle is obviously a different thing from
its reference to the axostyle and is in nearer conformity to the correct
interpi-etation of this structure. Alexeieff (1914a) solves the prob-
lem by the purely objective term blepharoplastodesmose, objection-
able because of its length.
A thread-like chromatic structure connecting recently divided
blepharoplasts or basal granules in Copromonas subtilis is figured by
Dobell (1908) without comment as to its significance. The bleph-
aroplast lies atijacent to the reservoir some distance anterior to
the nucleus and the paradesmose-like strand persisting between the
daughter blepharoplasts after their division, lies on the wall of the
vesicle much as the paradesmose of Trichomonas on its nuclear mem-
brane. It later disappear^ as in Trichomonas. We regard this
structure as homologous with the paradesmose of Trichomonas.
As noted above our researches show that this chromatic thread
connects at first the dividing daughter blepharoplasts. When,
however, these part each into a centrosome and basal granule at the
poles of the spindle the paradesmose connects the basal granules, and
not the ccntrosomes. The paradesmose thus connects here those parts
of the two blepharoplasts which are attached to the extranuclear
chromatic apparatus and not that which stands at the poles of the
spindle. This relationship, added to the fact that it is at all times
extranuclear as well as outside of the spindle, raises some doubts in
our minds as to the precise homology of the paradesmose with the
central spindle. The name we propose avoids the length and partial
inapplicability of that proposed by Alexeiefl^ and is in part at least
descriptive of the relations of this structure.
Since the instances of the division of the blepharoplast into centro-
some and basal granule seen by us are found mainly in Trichomonas
augusta and are few in number and since the division may represent
merely a precocious division of blepharoplasts, possibly followed by
re-fusion (PI. 2, Fig. 2.3, PI. 3, Figs. 24-2S), the resulting lack of a
precise homology of the paradesmose with the central spindle should
not be allowed to obscure its relationships to that structure. It is
in any event a differentiation of the central spindle modified by two
specializations in trichomonad mitosis, (1) the continuity of the
nuclear membrane which excludes it from the typical axial position
of the central spindle, and (2) the connection of the blepharoplast
with the extranuclear motor complex.
The paradesmose persists for some time after the daughter nuclei
