324 KOFOID AND SWEZY.
have separated (PL 3, Figs. 26-30) and seems to act as an elastic
tether which turns the blepharoplast poles of the daughter nuclei
towards one another from their original separation of 180° (PL 3,
Figs. 26-29) when the protean activity of the organism results in a
wider separation of the nuclei. In Figure 28 the paradesmose has
almost its original length and position and the nuclei are but slightly
turned. In Figure 29 the nuclei have parted for a distance equal to a
nuclear diameter, the paradesmose is very thin and straight as though
under tension and both nuclei are turned as though drawn by their
blepharoplasts. In Figure 26 the nuclei are nearly two nuclear
diameters apart but the blepharoplast of the nucleus to the right has
become detached from its nucleus and the paradesmose has shortened
up and thickened as though it had contracted.
It can no longer be detected between the blepharoplasts after the
axostyle has begun to divide. It fades away without leaving any
special organelle as its successor. It does not form the daughter
axostyles as described by Prowazek (1904) and by Dobell (1909).
The Anaphase.
The anaphase in which the chromosomes migrate to the poles of
the spindle and the nuclear membrane constricts is of some duration
for a number of cells in this period have been found in our preparations.
As the chromosomes approach the poles of the spindle the spindle
fibres grow thicker and darker or the chromatin material of the chro-
mosomes flows out towards the blepharoplasts until they seem to be
actually in contact with it (PL 3, Figs. 24-28) for a time. During
this period the chromosomes retain their individuality to a striking
degree.
The daughter nuclei are formed by the constriction of the nuclear
membrane in the equator of the broadly fusiform spindle (PL 3, Figs.
24, 25). Nuclei in this stage of constriction are very rarely seen in
preparations. This process is therefore quickly accomplished.
The Telophase.
The telophase, in which the nuclei return to the vegetative or
"resting" condition, is accomplished by the detachment of the chro-
mosomes from the blepharoplast pole of the nuclear membrane (PL 3,
