NEW INDO-MALAYAN LABOULBENIALES. 17
may show more variability than is indicated by the diagnosis when
abundant material is available. It is most readily distinguished by
the abruptly differentiated compressed tip of the perithecium. It
differs from R. Lcptochiri in having a triseriate receptacle.
Rickia Uropodae nov. .sp.
Form rather stout, habit more or less crest-like, axis indeterminate.
Basal cell abruptly distinguished, more than twice as long as broad,
slightly curved, with thick brownish yellow walls, and followed by
two small paired cells symmetrically placed; above which the cells of
the axis are triseriate, hyaline: the axial row united to the perithecium
laterally nearly to the apex, three or four of its distal cells extending
free beyond the insertion of the primary appendage, some of them
bearing secondary appendages, its cells below the base of the peri-
thecium small and squarish: of the two lateral axis-rows one, the
anterior, is more nearly straight or not strongly curved, usually
consisting of from eight to twelve cells, terminating at the base of the
perithecium; one to four of its slightly prominent and radially elon-
gated cells bearing at irregular intervals single, relatively large, com-
pound antheridia which are subtended by single small triangular cells:
the posterior lateral series, which is strongly curved, consists of from
twenty-five to thirty or more cells which are somewhat more elongated
radially (broader), and all of which without exception give rise to large
pear-shaped bladder-like appendages, hyaline, becoming brown, short,
slightly curved outward, subtended by a single small cell to which
they are attached by a narrow stalk, and distinguished by a dark
septum; the series ending in the large highly differentiated primary
appendage, the terminal (appendage-) cell of which is evanescent;
the two-celled sessile base large, cylindrical or slightly narrower dis-
tally in the region of its upper and much smaller cell; the whole
brownish yellow, free, projecting outward at a small angle from the
axis below it, its origin about three quarters of the distance from the
base to the apex of the perithecium. Perithecium dark rich brown,
wholly free externally, turned to an almost horizontal position by the
curvature of the axis; the tip broad, not very clearly distinguished,
about half free on the inner side, the apex blunt, broad, somewhat
asymmetrical. Perithecium, exclusive of marginal cells, 60 X 18 ju.
Basal part of primary appendage 16 X 8 ju. Secondary appendages
18 X 9 M- Total length 100-120 X 30 ju.
