TKICHOMONAD FLAGELLATES. 325
Figs. 29-31), their decrease in size, their rounding up, and their
ultimate disappearance as separate chromatic units. Several small
karyosomes may be seen in some nuclei towards the end of this process
(PI. 3, Figs. 35), but it seems normally to terminate in a nucleus with
a single central karyosome (PI. 3, Fig. 34). There is apparently
some reduction in the total amount of chromatin, in the form of deeply
stained masses in the nucleus during the telophase.
The division of the axostyle takes place during this process. Con-
trary to previously accepted accounts of the origin of this structure, it
is neither derived from the centrodesmose nor by new outgrowths from
the blepharoplast. It does not wholly disappear at any time during
mitosis in Trichomonas augusta but may be located and its outlines
traced in carefully stained material examined with apochromatic
objective and compensating oculars. The axostylar chromidia are of
great assistance in the quick location of the structure and the verifica-
tion of its outlines.
The old axostyle splits longitudinally from the club-shaped antei-ior
end to the posterior tip (PI. 3, Figs. 31-35, PI. 4, Fig. 36). Prior to
splitting the axostylar chromidia are somewhat more numerous, and
are arranged in a single row in its distal half. In several instances
(PI. 3, Figs. 31, 34) the chromidia in the distal undivided part are
distinctly larger than those in the adjacent daughter axostyles suggest-
ing their splitting m situ as the axostyle splits. The forms, sizes
(in a few instances only), positions, and numbers of the axostylar
chromidia are suggestive of their division or at least of their increase
in number prior to and during division of the axostyle. In premitotic
and mitotic stages prior to the division of the axostyle (Pis. 1, 2) the
range in number of axostylar chromidia in 19 individuals is 18-56
and the average 33. After division (PI. 4) the range in 12 individuals
is 9-37 and the average only 23. The variation is so great and the
numbers in sister axostyles at times so divergent (PI. 4, Fig. 37) that
no precise or regular method of multiplication and sharing of the
chromidia thus produced between the daughter axostyles can be
postulated from the evidence which, however, does indicate compen-
sating increase prior to and during binary fission.
The position of the axostyle prior to its division especially during
the metaphase-telophase is exceedingly varied (Pis. 2-4). Whereas
in the premitotic phase it is axial in position with the nucleus next to
its enlarged anterior end, during this later period this end becomes
more or less widely separated from either daughter nucleus, lying
even at the opposite pole (Pi. 3, Fig. 30). As the division of the
