326 KOFOID AND SVVEZY.
axostyle approaches and proceeds (PI. 3, Figs. 31-35, PI. 4, Fig. 30)
the nuclei assume a balanced relation (Fig. 31) and move into
close contact with the anterior ends of the new axostyles (Fig. 34)
which they retain throughout all of protean activity which precedes
the final separation of the daughter cells (PI. 4, Figs. 36-40, Fig. ¥).
Previous accounts of the fate of the parent axostyle and of the origin
of the new axostyles have been in a state of contradiction and con-
fusion. According to Prowazek (1904) who first described mitosis
in trichomonads {Triclwmasiix Jacertae) the old axostyle disappears
and the new ones form out of the organ which we have called the
paradesmose which finally divides at its middle into 'the two new
axostyles as the daughter cells are separated. According to Grassi
and Foa (1904) in the division of Jocnin annectans the paradesmose
(fuso) is involved in the formation of the new axostyles as their central
cores and the old axostyle (mestola) is dispersed. E\idence of the
behavior of the two organs involved is insufiicient in just that period in
Jocnia in which division of the axostyle and disappearance of the
paradesmose takes place in Tnchomonas. Conclusive as their evi-
dence presented seems as to the correctness of their interpretation in
Joenia, it is highly desirable that these critical stages be reinvestigated
to see if a correlation with our results in Trichomonas may not be
possible.
\A'enyon (1907) is the only author whose conclusions regarding the
origin of the axostyle in mitosis accord with ours. He states that it
" divides by longitudinal division and is the last part of the animal to
divide (pi. XI, fig. 3). In later stages it is seen extending tlirough
the body of the long drawn out animal from the neighborhood of one
nucleus to that of the other (pi. XI, figs. 15, 21). Ir the final stage,
two animals are attached simply by this organ, which finally gives
way, leaving the characteristic pointed ends." It is unfortunate
that none of his figures supports his views as to division and that his
context indicates a possible confusion of paradesmose and axostyle.
He notes the fiber between the daughter blepharoplasts in early mitosis
(his figs. 2, 4, 10, 11) but does not distinguish it from the axostyle in
later stages.
Hartmann and Prowazek (1907) state with regard to trichomonads
{Trichomasiix laccrtae) that the axostyle is formed from the " Caryosom
des Amphinuclolus " but, as Dobell says, there is no foundation for
this statement certainly not in Prowazek's own (1904) observations,
and none whatever in our own data, for we have shown that the
blepharoplasts are persistent organs having nothing to do (in the
