TRICHOMONAD FLAGELLATES. 327
asexual phase at least) with any karyosome of a hypothetical amphi-
nucleolus. Nor is their second conclusion that "Die vermutlich
mit (lem Centriol in Zusaminenhang stehende Rippe (Achsenstab) ist
eine Art von Centralspindel und geht in die Rippe des Tochterthieres
iiber" supported by our observations.
Dobell (1909) in both Trichomonas batrachorum and Trichomastix
bafrachorum finds that the parent axostyle vanishes apparently by
absorption and that the daughter axostyles are re-formed out of "the
central spindle or centrodesmus" between the daughter blepharoplasts.
His figures are inconclusive at the critical stage, however.
Prowazek and Beaurepaire Aragao (1909) state that in Trichomo-
nas columharum the axostyle disappears in greater part, and that
"aus dem basalen Teil des Belpharoplastachsenstabsapparates wurd
durch die Teilung ein neuer Achsenstab gleichsam aus gesponnen."
MacKinnon (1910) finds that in the division of Trichomonas trichop-
terar the axostyle disappears and is replaced in the daughter cells
by the thread connecting the dividing basal granules. Fuller data
regarding the axostyle and the fate of the paradesmose in this form are
necessary before a critical estimate of the data from this species as to
the axostyle can be made.
Alexeiefl" (1910) states that in Trichomastix motellac the axostyle is
resorbed at division and that the new axostyles are formed from the
"fusorial band" (centrodesmose) between the daughter blepharoplast,
but he figures no stages in this process.
Janicki (1910) finds in the highly differentiated trichonymphid
flagellate Lophomonas blattarum an axial structure which he regards
as homologous with the axostyle of the trichomonad flagellates. It
persists till late stages of binary fission and of multiple mitosis, and
the new organs are formed from the " central spindle" or paradesmose.
The evidence is very convincing although there is in the phase corre-
sponding to that of axostylar division in Trichomonas, a stage repre-
sented in his figures 12-14 in which more data are needed on the
precise behavior of the old axial organ and of the paradesmose as it is
transformed into the daughter axostyles. It is desirable that these
stages be further examined.
If his account is the correct one, as the evidence in hand indicates,
it is directly contradictory to that presented by us from Trichomonas.
Three possibilities occur to us to explain this contradiction. The first
is that further study will show that the axostyle of Lophomomis also
divides as the paradesmose fades out and that Janicki has overlooked
this division. The evidence at present in hand is strongly against
