328 KOFOID AND SWEZY.
this view. The second is that there are among flagellates both
methods of origin of the axostyle in fission. On purely a -priori grounds
that is improbable, though possible. The third is that the two struc-
tures, the axial rod of the Trichonymphidae and the axostyle of the
trichomonads are not homologous at all, but are morphologically
different structures of different origins. The mass of accessory
evidence is against this view\ Investigation of the trichonymphids
on this point is needed to settle this problem.
JoUos (1911) finds that in the division of Monocercomonas cetoniae
the old axostyle disappears and new ones arise by division of the basal
graimle, presumably from the central spindle between the daughter
granules.
Martin and Robertson (1911) do not find in Trichomonas (= Tetra-
trichomonas) gallinarum, Trichomonas eberthi, and Trichomastix gal-
linarum that the paradesmose becomes the axostyles of the daughter
cells. They note particularly, however, that this structure "can
hardly have played the important role in nuclear division" which
other workers have ascribed to it. The old axostyle according to
their observations fades away "by some process of solution starting
from the anterior end" and axostyles of the daughter cells are in
some unexplained way re-formed.
Alexeieff (1912) in a discussion of his own results and those of
Dobell (1909) and Martin and Robertson (1911) admits the possi-
bility of several methods of origin of the axostyle and suggests that
the method by which the blepharoplast gives rise to various organelles
is of no consequence. The primary question, however, is whether
or not the several methods are all correctly interpreted.
In a later paper (1913) he figures Trichomonas augusta in several
stages of mitosis labeling his figure VII, b-d, " trois stades de division;
la blepharoplastodesmose axiale on centrale qui s'etend entre les deux
blepharoplastes-fils devient I'axostyle (en d) des deux individus-fils."
His series is incomplete and does not show the derivation stated for
the axostyle. The paradesmose in his figure c is chromatic, and in d
achromatic, and the connection between the two quite hypothetical.
We interpret his figure c as a phase of multiple fission approaching
the second mitosis, and his Figure d as binary fission with parades-
mose apparently gone and the two daughter axostyles meeting end
to end, but represented as continuous, comparable with our Plate 4,
Figure 39, as to stage and arrangement of organelles. His actual data
as far as figured are not, except for the continuous structures inter-
preted as daughter axostyles in his figure d, contradictory to our
results.
