TRICHOMONAD FLAGELLATES. 333
in the light of our data which are more complete than those at their
disposal. If preparations are not adequately destained irregular
pictures such as they figure may be abundant. We have found the
alcoholic iron haematoxylin method particularly helpful in giving
clean cut nuclear preparations. The fact that the constricting nu-
clear membrane in the telophase simulates amitotic conditions may
be dismissed as without significance for amitosis in view of the differ-
entiation and behavior of the chromosomes in such nuclei in tricho-
monads.
The theoretical importance of the critical examination of all re-
ported cases of amitosis among the Protozoa is great, not only as to
the primitiveness of this form of cell division, but also as to its normal-
ity, since all trophozoites are, in so far at least as a priori considera-
tions are concerned, potential gametocytes or their ancestors. Since
chromosomes are differentiated in trichomonads the significance of
the occurrence or non-occurrence of amitosis is thereby increased.
We believe the interpretation of division by amitosis to be without
adequate foundation. Should undoubted cases of it be found, it
will be desirable to know the fate of the trophozoites thus produced.
The existence of chromosomes has been somewhat problematical
in the trichomonads, and their number variously interpreted. Dobell
(1909) finds six chromatin masses in Trichomastix hairachorum, but
states that " they cannot justly be called chromosomes." Martin and
Robertson (1911) do not regard them as chromosomes, while Kuc-
zinski (1914) affirms their occurrence in Trichomonas caviae, but re-
gards eight as the normal number basing his interpretation on stages
prior to the metaphase in which later stage he finds four plurivalent
chromatin masses. We have given a different interpretation to our
findings in the larger and clearer T. augusta. The fusion of smaller
masses of chromatin or chromomeres (or the chromosomes of Kuc-
zynski) results in the formation of chromosomes which then split
longitudinally before entering the equatorial plate. We have dis-
tinguished five chromosomes rather than four, though the fifth, a small
one, is often difficult to find. Many of Kuczynski's figures of the
equatorial plate and adjacent stages show five rather than four chro-
mosomes, so that we are inclined to think that this species also has
five chromosomes and that the process of chromosome organization
is essentially similar in his material and ours.
The fact that the number of chromosomes is five, an odd number,
raises the question as to whether or not there may also be individual
lines of asexual descent with four or possibly six chromosomes and
