334 KOFOID AND SWEZY.
that we may have here a case of sex chromosomes among the Protozoa.
The instances in which we have determined the number of chi'omo-
somes are few and though we have not succeeded in finding a critical
case of four chromosomes it may be that some of Kuczynski's determi-
nations of four are correct and that both numbers, four and five,
occur in the species and possibly in the genus. If this be true the
process of gametogenesis and syngamy, in these trichomonads if it
occurs, acquires added interest.
Multiple fission in Trichomonas aiigusfa.
We have found multiple fission to be a normal phase of wide-
spread occurrence in the life-history of Trichomonas augusta and
other trichomonads upon which we have worked. It occurs nor-
mally and not infrequently in individual hosts. Some hosts contain
no evidence of its occurrence, others have large numbers of parasites
in some phase of the process. It has been found in Trichomonas
augusta parasitic in Rana hoyle'i, Bufo halophilus, and Diemycti/lus
torosus, and always in the usual intestinal smears. Binary fission
which is not with certainty distinguishable from the first mitosis in
multiple fission also occurs in the same preparations with the late
stages of the latter process.
Multiple mitosis results in the formation successively of 2-4-8
nuclei by mitosis with the accompanying multiplication of extranuclear
organelles, such as cytostoine, motor apparatus including blepharo-
plast, undulating membrane (including chromatic marginal filament,
chromatin basal rod or parabasal body), paradesmose, and the axo-
st^de. The multiplication of the latter by longitudinal division lags
behind that of all other organelles so that four nuclei are often seen
with two axostyles and eight with four (PI. 4, Figs. 41, 42).
The result of multiple mitosis is the formation of a syncytium or
somatella with eight nuclei each with its full complement of organelles.
The nuclei lie in the periphery (Fig. G, 1) with the flagella radiating
outwardly and the axostyles pointing subcentrally while the undulat-
ing membranes are on surface of the common cytoplasm with their
free ends pointed more or less towards the center. Usually one or
more, however, have the undulating membrane at the margin of the
mass.
After multiple mitosis is completed plasmotomy ensues. This
is not coincident for all merozoites but each detaches itself singly from
