TRICHOMONAD FLAGELLATES. 335
the somatella. In Figure G is outlined the history of one such multi-
nucleate somatella in its later phases, with from five to one nucleus.
Plasmotomy in this case was prolonged for five hours. The first
three merozoites were detached rather quickly in succession in less
than ten minutes and the subsequent detachments are outlined in
figure G. A merozoite with its undulating membrane at the margin
of the mass is in an advantageous position for release and by its
turning, twisting, and rotating movements gradually increases the
outward projection of blepharoplast and flagella until the undulating
membrane is in such a position (Fig. G, 2) that its movements drive
the merozoite farther and farther out from the common mass, spinning
out behind it around the axostyle a thinning thread of cytoplasm or
plasmadesmose (Fig. G, 3) which finally parts with a jerk. The pro-
jection rounds into the common mass on the one hand and retreats
upon the tip of the axostyle on the other as the merozoite swims away.
This process is again repeated by another merozoite and another
(Fig. G, 3-5) until finally only two remain and these soon detach
themselves (Fig. G, 6-8) from one another. The connecting cyto-
plasmic threads spun out between the parent and daughter mass are
sometimes (Fig. G, 5) twice the normal length of the trophozoite.
They bear evidence to the tenacity and viscosity of the cytoplasm at
this stage.
It is obvious that the formative period of the plasmodium offers
only 2-4-8-nucleate stages while the prolonged disintegrative period
affords all stages with from eight to one nucleus. Some at least, and
possibly all of these disintegrative stages may be distinguished from
the corresponding ones of the formative period and from the final
phase of binary fission by two structural characters. The first of
these is the tendency of the chromatin to be massed in an unusually
large central karyosome (PI. 4, Fig. 42) and the second, the larger
cytoplasmic chromidia (PI. 4, Fig. 45). These distinctions are quickly
lost by the freed merozoite. Multiple fission does not seem to give
rise to individuals distinguishable from those produced by binary
fission. The products of a single merogony are subequal, though
occasionally considerable inequalities are seen. We are as yet unable
to relate the process of multiple mitosis to gametogenesis or to syn-
gamy.
