18 THAXTER.
On various parts of a species of Uropoda parasitic on large Passali,
Java (Thompson).
A very distinct and beautiful species, occurring rarely on various
parts of its host, more commonly dorsally, sometimes in company
with R. Bcrh'siana. The antheridia are very well developed, and their
compound character is more clearly distinguishable than is usual in
species of this genus. They do not persist, however, and usually
appear like more or less broken appendages after the perithecium has
begun to mature. It is more nearly allied to R. cristata than to other
described species, but is clearly distinguished by its pear-shaped
secondary appendages, as well as by numerous other details of struc-
ture.
Rickia uncinata nov. sp.
Axis slender, elongate, hyaline, simple, or occasionally branched,
consisting of three parallel rows above the basal cell. Appendages
two or three to ten, scattered irregularly, short, nearly cylinch'ical
with broadly rounded apex, the basal cell minute, subtriangular,
hardly projecting and distinguished by a black septum; an antheri-
dium usually subtending the perithecium on its outer side; the primary
appendage three-celled, the terminal cell shorter than the secondary
appendages and more inflated, distinguished by a blackened septum
from its two-celled base which is subcylindrical and projects free at an
angle of about 45°, terminating the outer axis cell-row opposite the
middle of the perithecium. Perithecium terminal, hyaline, or be-
coming slightly suffused with brownish, slightly curved, the median
axis-row extending along its convex margin for about three fifths to
two thirds of its length, and ending just below the persistent blackened
base of the trichogyne; the tip contrasting brown, the apex partly
hyaline, the whole abruptly recurved outward. Perithecia 38-42 X
12-16 /z, including the marginal cells. Primary appendage, including
base, 24 ij. long; secondary appendages 12X4/^. Total length
150-500 X 10 M-
On large Passali from Java. (Thompson).
This species resembles R. nutans in general habit, but is at once
distinguished by its three-ranked axis, and the absence of apical
appendages on the perithecium. It rarely branches, except when
injured. A single specimen found grow'ing on the leg of a species of
Macrochcles parasitic on the same host, appears also to belong to this
species. This individual, however, is relatively short and stout, its
