TRICHOMONAD FLAGELLATES. 337
Trichomonas muris Hartmann.
Plate 5, Figures 46-66.
The process of mitosis in this form has been very fully discussed by
Kuczynski (1914) whose paper appeared while this investigation was
of progress. Our results differ from his of several important particu-
lars, especially in the discovery of the occurrence of multiple mitosis,
of the origin of the axostyles by splitting, and of the number of chro-
mosomes. In view of his detailed account only a brief summary of
our conclusions will be given.
Our material has come from the albino mouse from the culture cages
of Professor J. A. Long, to whom we are indebted for the material,
and from Peromyscus mamculatus gambcli Baird from the Berkeley
Hills near the University. Of these wild mice 59 were examined but
only 38 were noticeably infected with this flagellate. No appreciable
difference between the Trichomonas from the two hosts is detectable
though the divergence of their lines of ancestry is possibly very great.
The albino mice, on the other hand, were somewhat more heavily
and more frequently infected, 42 out of 55 yielding Trichomonas on
cursory examination. Only two instances of a cycle of mitosis in the
infected mice were found. Four individuals of Microtus californicus
californiciis (Peale) examined contained no Trichomonas.
The Trophozoite,
This stage (PI. 5, Figs. 46-61) is smaller and more rotund than
the corresponding phase of T. augusta, its length being 10-15 fi and its
transdiameter 7-11 /x. The undulating membrane is relatively very
wide and its undulations are not so deeply incised nor so numerous.
The nucleus is a trifle smaller (5 /x) than in T. augusta (7 /x), and is
often richer in chromatin. There are no axostylar chromidia and but
a single row of 8-16 large cytoplasmic chromidial granules along the
inner side of the chromatic basal rod and parallel to it. These dis-
appear at the metaphase of mitosis and reappear along the daughter
chromatic basal rods after the division of the axostyle (PI. 5, Fig. 60).
The axostyle has no capitulum and projects but little posteriorly. It
sometimes shows (PI. 5, Fig. 50, 55) the posterior axostylar granules
or ring at the point of emergence. It is usually curved, especially
