338 KOFOID AND SWEZY.
anteriorly (PI. 5, Fig. 46), but the nucleus is not in a constant position
with respect to the concavity (Plate 5, Figs. 46, 48, 50, 52), indicating
some intracytoplasmic mobility of these organelles.
Binary fission in Trichomonas muris.
The dense karyosome resulting from the fusion in the telophase
of the clu'omosomes in one central mass is followed by a stage in
which the chromatin is dispersed in numerous subequal spheroidal
and ellipsoidal granules, with a delicate connecting achromatic net
(PI. 5, Fig. 47). As mitosis approaches a faint intranuclear cloud
gives a dark homogeneous (PI. 5, Fig. 49) appearance to the nucleus
and seems to emerge thence into the cytoplasm where it is dissipated.
The equidistant subequal chromatin granules, at first over twenty
in number, are then arranged in a more or less connected, sometimes
spiral (PI. 5, Fig. 50) skein in which the number of separate chro-
matin units becomes reduced (PI. 5, Figs. 50-52) until finally there
are but five groups (^Fig. 53) which present the appearance of five
pairs of chromosomes in parasynapsis, or as we interpret it in the
light of our results in T. augusta, in five chromosomes split longitudi-
nally. These chromosomes are somewhat unequal in size. There is a
pair of small ones, overlooked by Kuczynski (1914) which in the five
nuclei in this stage found by us is always located near the anterior
surface of the nucleus (PI. 5, Figs. 53-55). This pair, as in T. augusta,
also lags in division in the equatorial plate. There is a large pair and
three pairs of medium size, one of which is a trifle smaller than the
others. They do not divide synchronously in the equatorial plate
(PI. 5, Fig. 56).
Kuczynski (1914) concludes that there are but four of these groups
and regards the granules seen in an earlier stage as the true chromo-
somes and these as plurivalent aggregates. However, since these are
the actual masses parted in the equatorial plate (PI. 5, Fig. 56) it
seems more in keeping with the terminology of mitosis generally to
regard these as the true chromosomes and the earlier subdivisions as
chromomeres, whatever these may be. These pairs of chromosomes
which lie with their long axes parallel and rather closely appressed,
appear almost to merge into a single unit just before entering the
equatorial plate (PI. 5, Fig. 54). The indications are that they lie
in this plate in an end-to-end position as in T. augusta (Fig. 56) parting
in any event at a median transverse constriction which we assume
