TRICHOMONAD FLAGELLATES. 341
(1911a) who found it in the amphibians Salamandra maculosa, Alytes
ohstetricans, in the marine teleost Box salpa, and in the leech Haemopis
sanguisuga, but notes that it is ahnost certain that the species as thus
constituted should be dismembered.
We have found this species only in the urodele Diemydylus torosus
in 80 out of 96 hosts examined between March 19 and December.
It was associated with Trichomonas augusta which is usually very
abundant, but was as a rule very rare, being found abundantly only in
three individuals in March. It was undergoing multiple fission in
these hosts but not in the instances of light infection. This restricted
and erratic distribution is suggestive of a possible greater abundance
in some other host and an accidental or incidental invasion of Diemy-
ctylus. In the three hosts with stages of Tetratrichomonas in multiple
fission Trichomonas was entirely absent. This fact and the usual
small numbers suggest but do not prove an antagonistic relationship
between these parasites.
The Trophozoite.
This is a small trichomonad, generally somewhat rounded, often
pyriform with the larger end posterior, less frequently anterior (PI. 6,
Fig. 68). Its length, based on Alexeieff's (1910) figure and excluding
fiagella and axostyle, is only 10 /x. In a later (1911d) description
he gives the length as 10-14 /x and the diameter as 4-7 /x. In our
material it runs somewhat larger, from 12 to nearly 25 n, but geuer-
.ally less than 20 /x.
It has the usual trichomonad organelles, a spheroidal or ellipsoidal
nucleus often presenting a diffuse intranuclear chromidial cloud
(PI. 6, Fig. 07), with a single (P'ig. 69) or several (Fig. 68) large karyo-
somes. An extranuclear chromidial cloud (Fig. 72), and small sparsely
present (P'ig. 78) or large densely staining (Fig. 76) cytoplasmic chro-
midia arc occasionally seen but they are not regularly present and none
has been seen in the axostyle. The nucleus has four chromosomes
(Fig. 70). The cytostome (Figs. 67, 68) is relatively large, and food
vacuoles, either fluid filled (Fig. 75), or more generally with solid
particles (Figs. 67, 70, 77), are found scattered through the cytoplasm.
The food taken consists of bacteria (Fig. 77), plant cells (Fig. 67),
blood corpuscles of the host, and cysts of amoeba. In one instance an
individual (Fig. 69) was found with a large spheroidal cyst described
as Blastocystis enierocola by Alexeieff (1911c) enclosed within its sub-
