342 KOFOm AND SWEZY.
stance as shown by the continuity of the cytoplasm about it, at least
upon the upper surface of the preparation, and by the presence of a
sHght fluid film of the food vacuole about it. We have also observed
a living trophozoite actually envelope one of these cysts having a vol-
ume nearly equal to its own, by an amoeboid engulfing movement
beginning at the cytostome.
Cysts of this type were originally described by Perroncito (1S88)
and were regarded by him as belonging to Cercomonas (= Tricho-
monas) intestinalis. Schaudinn (1903) described their formation by
copulating and maturating Trichomonas intestinalis from man, and
Prowazek (1904) also related them to this species from the rat. Later
Bohne and Prowazek (1908) described autogamy in them and Bensen
(1909) confirmed their results. Prowazek (1912) later again refers
these cysts to Trichomonas, but Wenyon (1910) associated them with
these flagellates only " as abnormal and degenerate forms." However,
Doflein (1911) in the latest edition of his "Lehrbuch" accepts the
cysts as those of Trichomonas but questions autogamy and reduction,
and Donitz and Hartmann have included them in their wall chart
of Trichomonas.
Dobell (1908b) was the first to expressly doubt their relation to
flagellates and refer them to the yeasts or related organisms, a view
supported by the fuller investigation made by AlexeieiT (1911a, 1911c)
who determined their life-history and named the organism Blastocystis
eyiterocola.
The activities of Tetratrichomonas prowazeJci resemble those of
Trichomonas augusta with which it is associated and in the living condi-
tion the two are readily confused. In stained material the additional
anterior flagellum, axostyle, contents of vacuoles, and absence of
axostylar chromidia at once differentiate it from Trichomonas.
The extranuclear motor apparatus is identical in its component
organelles with that in Trichomonas except for the presence of four
instead of three anterior flagella. Alexeieff states that these are of
unequal length, there being two subequal long ones and two subequal
shorter ones. Our observations, Alexeieff's (1910), and Parisi's
(1910) figures agree in indicating some variability in length, but we
find no constant morphological differentiation in these organelles.
The undulating membrane is less developed than in Trichomonas
having less elevation, fewer undulations and a more slender and
usually relatively shorter chromatic basal rod. The axostyle is very
slender, exceedingly hyaline, devoid of chromidia, and without anterior
capitulum. It usually projects posteriorly (Fig. 68) as a slender
