TRICHOMONAD FLAGELLATES. 343
point. The blepharoplast is exceptionally large. We have not found
it separating in this species into centrosome and basal granule as in
Trichomonas augusta and T. muris.
Binary Fission.
No attempt has been made by us to find the full history of binary
fission in this species since it differs so slightly in organization from
Trichomonas augusta which we have described so fully. It presents
certain obvious disadvantages for such study, namely the absence of
axostylar chromidia, the abundance of vacuoles filled with solid food
obscuring structure (PI. 6, Figs. 67, 69), and the smaller size. We
therefore present no data on binary fission in this species except to
note that the four flagella are shared two and two by the daughter
blepharoplasts at mitosis (Fig. 70).
Multiple Fission.
Fortunately this phase occurred in abundance in the large intestine
of Diemyctylus torosus in March in hosts which had been scantily fed
and retained in the laboratory for four to six weeks after the close of
their breeding season. Slides from the intestinal wall contain stages
both of the formation and of the disintegration of the plasmodium or
somatella (PL 6, Figs. 70-78).
The formation of the 8-nucleate plasmodium results from three
successive completely pervading mitoses (PI. 6, Figs. 70-72) without
plasmotomy. The nuclei at the close of the process (Fig. 71) have
a single central karyosome and an intranuclear chromidial cloud.
Later the karyosome disappears and fine chromatic granules are dis-
tributed throughout the nucleus (Fig. 72). The blepharoplasts are
peripherally located and the undulating membranes terminate near
the middle when the organism is on the substrate (Fig. 72). The
axostyles are not readily found in these stages because of their small
size and when present are easily confused with the elongated cyto-
stome (Fig. 72).
The disintegrative phases are readily distinguished from those in
the formative process in all cases of odd number of nuclei but not in
the case of the even number when the nuclei are in the resting condi-
tion, especially from the 2- and 4-nucleate stages. Dispersal of the
