344 KOFOID AND SWEZY.
merozoites occurs by the successive detachment by plasmotomy of
single individuals, resulting in plasmodia with 7 (Fig. 73), 6, 5 (Fig. 74),
4 (Fig. 75), 3 (Fig. 76), and 2 nuclei. A plasmodesmose indicating
recent plasmotomy is seen in some cases (Fig. 77) . The later phases
of this process are marked by the aggregation of the nuclear chro-
matin in larger karyosomes (Figs. 74, 77, 78) and the disappearance
of the dense intranuclear chromidial cloud. In one case, possibly
pathological (Fig. 76), the cytoplasm was crowded by many large
deeply staining chromidial spheres approaching the nuclei in size.
The process of multiple fission in Tetratrichomonas is similar in its main
outline and its end result to that in Trichomonas augusta as previously
described by us.
Eutrichomastix serpentis (Dobell).
Plates 6, 7, Figures 79-104.
Material.
This small flagellate was found in three snakes from California,
to wit, in the yellow gopher or Pacific bull snake (Pituophis catenifer
(Blainville)), in four of the five individuals examined, in the common
garter snake {Eutaenia sirtalis (Linn.)), in one of the two examined,
and in the Pacific rattlesnake {Crotalus oregonus (Holbrook)) in the
one individual examined. It was also found in one of four individuals
of Python reticulatus (Schneider) from Borneo examined at least
twenty-four hours after death.
The parasites were found in each host in greatest abundance in the
upper part of the large intestine. Smears prepared from the wall in
this region contain division stages of Eutrichomastix in such numbers
that it has been possible to work out both binary and multiple fission
in this species.
Historical.
A flagellate parasite of the intestine of snakes was first described
by Hammerschmidt (1844, 1845) from Coluber (= Tropidonotus)
natrix as Bodo colubrorum. We have seen only the translation of his
paper (1845) but from the crude figures therein reproduced it is quite
impossible to determine with certainty what genus he had in hand.
