TRICHOMONAD FLAGELLATES. 345
He figures but a single anterior flagellum and a rather long posterior
one projecting from the body. This is somewhat Cercomo7ias-[ike
and lacks wholly the clear presentation of any Eutrichomastix char-
acters, though it is quite possible that he ma^' have been dealing with
this genus but failed to distinguish its organelles.
Later Blochmann (1883) included in a paper dealing with parasitic
and marine flagellates a description of a new form ascribing it to
Biitschli who discovered it in the cloaca of Lacerta agilis. He gave it
the name Trichoviastix lacertae Biitschli apparently unaware that
Vollenhoeven (1878) had previously proposed this same generic name
for a hymenopteron.
This preoccupation, which no subsequent writer, except Stiles
(1902) seems to have noted, necessitates a new generic name for the
trichomonad. We have therefore proposed Eutrichomastix as pre-
serving, at least for protozoologists, a clue to the relationships of the
flagellate, and designate Eutrichomastix lacertae (Biitschli) as the type
of the genus.
The question of the correct specific name for the organism is less
readily determined since we know so little of the morphological changes
incident to the life-cycle and to change from one host species to an-
other. It seems best, as Dobell (1907) has done, to leave unutilized
Hammerschmidt's name coluhrorum, since it is indeterminable. If
both Biitschli's (see Blochmann, 1883) lacertae and Dobell's (1907)
serpentis are permitted to stand they should rest upon morphological
distinctions rather than host habitats. Such distinctions are appar-
ently lacking between the figures of Blochmann and of Prowazek,
and those of Dobell. The range of variation in size and proportions
only partially represented in our figures (PI. 7, Figs. 79, 81) from a
single host, is such that we are loath to attribute specific values to
slight differences in proportions.
Moreover, individuals upon which we have worked from hosts as
widely separated in classification as Python reticulatus (Boidae) and
Crotalus oregonus (Crotalidae) are not morphologically distinguish-
able. Nor does geographical separation seem to differentiate them
since our material is recognizably similar to that of Biitschli, Prowazek,
and Dobell from Europe, and forms in Python from Borneo examined
shortly after arrival in San Francisco are not different from those in
Crotalus from California.
The possibility that forms in snakes may be different from those in
lizards, is, however, an open one, and for the present we tentatively
refer the species upon which we have worked to Eutrichomastix ser-
