346 KOFOID AND SWEZY.
pentis (Dobell) with the expectation that later work will clear up the
differences between, or the identity of the species of EutricJwmastix
in lizards and snakes.
The Trophozoite.
This small flagellate has an elongated or a stout body of variable
outline, ovate, obovate, pyriform, slightly asymmetrical or more or
less irregular, the latter feature resulting doubtless from its amoeboid
activities on the slide as substrate. Free-swimming forms tend to be
elongated and individuals resulting from recent division are typically
elongated (PI. 7, Fig. 79). The stouter forms predominate in intestinal
smears. The mucus of the intestinal wall and its glands appears to be
the medium in which the less active and larger stages prior to binary
and multiple fission are developed. The range in form in our material
from long slender to short stout (PI. 7, Figs. 79, 81) ones is analogous
to that noted above in Trichomonas aujusta. It may also in this form
represent to some extent a cyclic change from the slender type result-
ing from binary or multiple fission to the stout form preceding one or
both of these forms of reproduction. It is possible that copulation
may precede both or either of these forms of multiplication, especially
the latter, but no evidence of it has been detected in the course of our
examination of the material. Individuals in the metaphase of mitosis
(PI. 7, Fig. 84) and in multiple fission (PI. 8, Fig. 99) become more or
less spheroidal or ellipsoidal.
Since the whole range in form occurs in a single host (Crotalus)
and since we can find no group of morphological characters to dis-
tinguish species within this complex we regard all of the forms as in
the cycle of one species. The range is sufficiently wide to include the
slender form figured by Blochmann (1SS3) as Trkhomastix lacertae
Biitschli from Larerta agllis, the stouter one figured later by Prowazek
(1904) from smears from the intestine of Lacerta muralis, and the stout
forms figured by Dobell (1907) as Trichomastix serpentis from the
rectal contents of Boa constrictor. Dobell states that his culture con-
tained many involution forms.
The length from anterior end to the posterior tip of the axostyle
in our material ranges from 8-20 fj. and is usually 13-15 jjl in active
vegetative forms. The diameter varies greatly in different individuals,
even of the same length and even in the same individual under differ-
ent conditions of amoeboid activity. It ranges 4 /x in very slender
