TRICHOMONAD FLAGELLATES. 347
forms (PI. 7, Fig. 79) to 10 /x in stouter ones (PI. 7, Fig. 81), is usually
7-8 /x, and may attain 12-13 ix in metaphase and multiple fission stages.
The organs of this flagellate consist of three anteriorly directed
flagella, one longer posteriorly directed one, all originating in an ante-
riorly located blepharoplast. Adjacent to this organ is the crescentie
cytostome, and the spheroidal or ellipsoidal nucleus, and from it
passes posteriorly the slender axial axostyle.
The enveloping cytoplasm has no structurally differentiated pellicle
and is not separated into ectoplasm and endoplasm. It is very com-
pletely vacuolated with fluid filled vacuoles which are subject to con-
siderable variation in size and uniformity. In some individuals they
are few and large, four across the body, while in others they are small
and numerous six to eight across the body, while in still others they
are of mingled large and small sizes in varying proportions. They are
usually small and nmnerous in premitotic and mitotic phases. In life
and in Schaudinn-iron-haematoxylin preparations these vacuoles
show no structural contents and are apparently fluid filled. Over-
heated slides show granular contents similar to those found in cyto-
plasmic vacuoles of Trichomonas augusta which stain with neutral red.
There is no evidence with the stains we have employed of solid food
particles in these vacuoles, nor has the ingestion of such particles been
observed in living individuals. The presence of the cytostome sug-
gests its possibility but no evidence that solid particles are ever taken
was seen among many living and prepared individuals under observa-
tion. No traces of deeply staining chromidia and no well-developed
intra- or extranuclear chromidial clouds were detected. The dark
granules of uneven size noted by Dobell (1907) do not have the appear-
ance of chromidia. Similar granules appear in several of our figures
(PI. 7, Figs. 87, 92). The cytostome is a somewhat crescentie tract
on the " ventral " side of the body near the anterior end. Its concavity
lies adjacent to the nucleus and its upper end is slightly larger. There
is no undulating membrane in it and no evidence of a localized pharynx
leading from it deeper into the cytoplasm.
The extranuclear motor apparatus consists of the blepharoplast,
flagella and axostyle, all connected and all involved with the nucleus
in the process of mitosis The blepharoplast lies rather close to the
surface near the anterior end of the body, closely attached to the head
of the axostyle. It is of a dense black color, has no cytoplasmic halo
about it, is sometimes quadrangular, but usually spheroidal. We have
been unable to resolve it into the four basal granules of the four fla-
gella, as Martin and Robertson (1911) have for their Trichomonas
