348 KOFOID AND SWEZY.
gallinarum and Trichomastix gallinarum. In one instance (PI. 7,
Fig. 80) it is divided into two granules but these are regarded by us
as the initial step in the prophase of mitosis. Its diameter is 0.5-
0:2 fi.
The blepharoplast gives rise to the four flagella which pass across
the narrow film of cytoplasm and emerge at or near the anterior end.
Three of these flagella, the anterior ones, are shorter than the fourth,
and are usually directed anteriorly in a single cluster which lashes
from side to side, or which may spread out and each flagellum act
independently of the others in its position and movements. These
flagella are about 1.5 times the length of the axostyle in length. The
remaining flagellum is a trailing one but does not differ in diameter
or stainability from the others Its length, however, is nearly twice
as great, and in locomotion it trails posteriorly in a sweeping curve
at one side of the body. Its position and relative length suggest its
homology with the marginal filament and posterior flagellum of the
undulating membrane of Trichomonas though it exhibits no trace of
heavier caliber or greater stainability such as is characteristic of both
the marginal filament and cliromatic rod within the undulating
membrane of Trichomonas, though not of their extension in the free
posterior flagellum.
The axostyle is a slender hyaline rod, of nearly uniform caliber
throughout, sometimes slightly tapering distally, sometimes slightly
enlarged in that region. Its length is about twenty times its diameter
and ranges from 10-15, rarely 18 /x. Anteriorly it terminates without
enlargement in the blepharoplast and posteriorly it contracts rather
abruptly to a sharp point. We have found no structure w ithin it. Its
shape is subject to considerable variation. It is straight or nearly so
in elongated forms (PI. 7, Fig. 80) and often much curved almost to a
semicircle or bent at right angles in rounded ones (PI. 7, Fig. 94).
In life it is subject to incessant turning from side to side in a fashion
difficult to follow in the combined rotation, amoeboid movement; and
axost^lar contortions of the organism. It appears to be the localized
center in which these powerful movements occur which resemble as
much as anything the labored strokes of a heavy stout flagellum. In
fact this axostyle more than that of any species we have exann'ned
resembles an intracytoplasmic flagellum whose movements are im-
peded by the tenacious medium in which it is imbedded. Its posterior
end often projects for a short distance as a naked shaft beyond the
cytoplasm, even for as much as 0.3 of its length. It forms the axis
along which blobs of cytoplasm may be severed by plasmectomy from
the body, and dropped off at the posterior end (PI. 7, Fig. 80).
