NEW INDO-MALAYAN LABOULBENIALES. 21
thecia somewhat indeterminate, the wall-cells numerous in each of the
four rows; solitary, or several developed at intervals from an elon-
gate receptacle. Trichogyne branched, more or less persistent at the
base of the perithecium on the inner side. Asci eight-spored. Spores
1-septate; the basal (upper) segment twice as long as the terminal
and with lateral cushions at the tip. Ascogenic cells more than two.
Owing to the unusual variations which are exhibited by the diiferent
species of this genus, it is very difficult to define it satisfactorily. In
T. Gryllotalpae, which is taken as the type, the antheridium may be
as clearly defined as it is in Eucantharomyces. In fact these organs are
very similar in general appearance in the two genera. On the other
hand there are some species in which I have been unable to discover
any signs of antheridial cells; and in others the latter are associated
with the bases of certain sterile branches, arising near the base of the
appendage, which closely resembles that of some species of Ceratomyces
and its allies, a resemblance which is further accentuated l)y the char-
acters of the multicellular receptacle and perithecium, and the position
of the trichogyne which is left behind at the base of the perithecium.
In fact a species like T. brcvis would be placed in Ceratomyces with-
out hesitation, were it not for the presence of these peculiar groups
of antheridial cells which, from analogy with the type, must be con-
sidered compound antheridia. The genus must therefore find its
place among the Peyritschiellaceae. There is a certain resemblance
between some species of this genus and Spegazzini's Cochliomyces
which, although its characters are not at all clearly indicated by the
published figures and descriptions, appears to differ in possessing
appendages on both sides of the perithecium. There is, moreover, a
superficial resemblance to Edeinomyces which, however, differs in the
character of its antheridia and determinate perithecia.
The trichogyne is usually more or less persistent and might readily
he mistaken for a branch of the appendage.
The antheridium in the type is terminated by the peculiar spine
found in Eucantharomyces and various other genera, which appears to
correspond to the persistent apex of the spore. In the present in-
stance this spine lies just beside the subterminal pore through which
the sperm cells are discharged from the common antheridial cavity.
The asci are certainly S-spored in some cases although I have not in
every instance been able actually to count this number.
It is somewhat remarkable that a single host should in the same
locality be parasitized by so many distinct species, but although I
have endeavored to reduce the mmiber which may be distinguished
