TRICHOMONAD FLAGELLATES. 351
tion of micro- and macrogamete. However, in the light of the intense
activity of the living forms at this stage it must be regarded only as a
chance phase of contraction without morphological meaning.
Multiple Mitosis in Eutrichommtix scrpeniis.
We have found e\idence for the occurrence of this phase in Eutricho-
monas from both Crofalus and Pifuophis, and our series of stages is
incomplete only in the disintegrative phase. The material is appar-
ently normal in all cases and was found in but a single host in each
species.
The formative phase of the plasmodium or somatella is fully repre-
sented (PI. 8, Figs. 9S-100). We find no means of distinguishing
ordinary binary fission from the initial division which is followed
in multiple fission by the two succeeding synchronous mitoses. There-
fore any binary fission may supposedly serve as illustration of the first
division in multiple mitosis (PI. 7).
The second mitosis in multiple fission (PI. 8, Figs. 98, 99) is syn-
chronous in both nuclei resulting from the first mitosis. That this
4-nucleate phase is thus formed is shown by the persisting plasmo-
desmose (Figs. 98, 99) joining the sister nuclei. The number of chro-
mosomes in the nuclei of the plasmodium is four (PI. 8, Figs. 98, 99),
the same as in l)inary fission. The plasmodium is therefore not in a
diploid and the trophozoite in a haploid condition.
The derivation of the 8-nucleate plasmodium from the 4-nucleate
is shown (PI. 8, Fig. 100) by the four paradesmoses which join the
sister nuclei derived from the four of the preceding stage.
It is difficult if not impossible to follow the history of the extra-
nuclear organelles din-ing the formative phases of the somatella. Ihe
ultimate formation of the full complement is indicated by their pres-
ence in the later disintegrative phases (PI. 8, Fig. 103). There is
some evidence that the multiplication of axostyles is delayed in mul-
tiple fission as in binary'. There are apparently eight cytostomes and
four axostyles in the 8-nucleate plasmodium shown in Plate 8, Figure
100, but not as yet the full complement of flagella.
We have no evidence as to the duration of any of the plasmodial
stages. W^e do not find more than eight nuclei and the 8-nucleate
Plasmodium disintegrates by the successive detachment of the single
component merozoites. There is no evidence of a regular plasmo-
tomy to 4- and 2-nucleate plasmodia reversing the order of the forma-
