TRICHOMONAD FLAGELLATES. 353
"giant forms divided abnormally commonly giving rise to three or
four daughter cells." He further states that division, in living forms
under observation, rarely became complete, a conclusion which our
observations indicate was merely the result of the slowness of the pro-
cess and its metabolic phases. That it may be regularly completed
is indicated in our text figure F, of Trichomonas augusta. He further
concludes that the whole finally fuses into a large amoeboid mass
which finally dies. This may be true in moribund cultures but we
do not regard this as the normal outcome of the process.
The occurrence of multiple mitosis in the Hexamitidae is definitely
established by the observations of Noc (1909) and of Prowazek and
Werner (1914, pi. 10, fig. 13) on Laviblia intestinalis in which they
find and figure individuals with eight nuclei, that is, a trophozoite
which has undergone two of the three synchronous mitosis, for it is
obvious that the plasmodial stage of the binucleate Lamhlia corre-
sponding to the 8-nucleate plasmodium of Trichomonas will have six-
teen miclei. Noc (1909) also figures two multinucleate structures
with an indeterminate number of nuclei, which he regards as multiple
division stages of Lamhlia, though the morphological basis for such
reference requires further elaboration.
Our observations demonstrate the occurrence of multiple mitosis
in normal fresh material from normal hosts in Trichomonas augusta
Alexeieff, T. muris Hartmann, Eutrichomonas serpentis Dobell, and
Tetratrichomonas proivazeki Alexeieff, as well as in certain other
trichomonads an account of which will be given in later papers. The
process is thus one of widespread occurrence and seemingly a wholly
normal one in the Tetramitldae {Trichomonas, Eutrichomastix, Tetra-
trichomonas) in which it results in free-moving non-encysted plasmodia
composed of eight merozoites which subsequently slowly detach them-
selves singly from the plasmodium. In some of the Hexamitidae
{I^amhlia) on the other hand, the developing plasmodium comes to
be more or less encysted (Prowazek and Werner, 1914) apparently
as a rule, and the method of release of merozoites is not as yet evident.
Plasmodium formation by multiple fission is thus a normal process of
general occurrence throughout the Polymastigina as defined by Doflein
(1913).
The repeatedly offered inference that the multinucleated, multi-
flagellated Trichonymphida are related to the Polymastigina there-
fore gains added probability, for the temporary multinucleated, multi-
flagellated Plasmodium of the Polymastigina, or more especially of
the Hexamitidae, may be regarded as an evolutionary step in the
