TRICHOMONAD FLAGELLATES. 355
of all of the organelles. The following comments are made on his
conclusions with regard to the lower flagellates related to Tricho-
monas.
The transfer of Devescovina to, and the inclusion of Foaina with the
Polymastigina is in accord with our conclusion that the chromatic
basal line of Trichomonas is the homologue of the parabasal in other
forms. His inference that the parabasal of Devcscov-ina divides at
mitosis is not supported by evidence of actual division. It grows out
independently of the old parabasal in Trichomonas and may be ex-
pected to do so in Devescovina. He still revives the old figure of
Trichomonas showing the stout body which he calls parabasal though
recognizing its rarity and temporary status, but does not reinvestigate
material nor recognize the relationships of this organ to the chromatic
basal rod or true parabasal. His evidence presented for the origin
of the new parabasal by outgrowth in the case of Stcphanonympha
is on the other hand amply conclusive.
The extrusion of bacteria-like granules from the nucleus at the
telophase in Dcrescotina is apparently analogous to the formation in
Trichomonas of extranuclear chromidia at the prophase as we haxe
described it.
His description of the behavior of the extranuclear organelles in
mitosis in Devescovina differs in certain very important particulars
from our conclusions in the case of Trichomonas. In the first place
he figures (his pi. 13, figs. 10, 11) two extranuclear division centers.
One of these spins out the extranuclear paradesmose (his "Spindel").
between the daughter division centers each of which consists of a
centriole to w'hich is attached a single parabasal and a group of flagella
exactly as in Trichomonas. These daughter centers become the ble-
pharoplasts of the daughter organisms. He states however that these
centers do not arise from the blepharoplast but independently of it,
no source being stated or evident in the figures. We believe this
inference incorrect and that they will be found to arise from the
parent blepharoplast. A second center, figured but twice, consists
of a dark granule within a light halo, both of which structures are spun
out in line parallel to the paradesmose. Their fate is unknown, but
he suggests that they become the suspensory lamellae coming from
blepharoplast past the nucleus towards the axostyle. This second
division center is regarded by him as the true blepharoplast and the
line between them as the " Desmose." Our interpretation of this
organelle, based on Trichoiuonas, is that this second dividing center
is not the blepharoplast at all but may perhaps be the remnant of the
