356 KOFOID AND SWEZY.
axostyle (see his pi. 13, fig. 7) and that furthermore it may give rise
by its division to the clear area with darker axial line which later dis-
appears (his pi. 14, figs. 15, 16), out of which the new axostyles are
formed. Such an alternative interpretation is in harmony both with
our findings in Trichomonas and with his data.
In a second important particular his findings diverge from ours,
namely with reference to the origin of the axostyle which in Dcvcsco-
mna is said to disappear and to be re-formed in the late telophase as a
clear area connecting the daughter nuclei in the axis of which the
"Spindel" or paradesmose is found. This structure later becomes V-
shaped and finally parts at its apex giving rise to the two axostyles
in which, however, the deeply stained axis is no longer visible. We
believe his data though not his interpretation, may be harmonized
with our findings. As we have suggested above, the clear area and
granule functioning as a division center and regarded by him as the
true blepharoplast, we interpret as the axostyle. Its position (his
pi. 13, figs. 7, 10, 11) in view of the great mobility of organelles
indicated in his figures of these stages is not a serious difficulty.
His series of figures of this organelle is short and disconnected from
later stages (his pi. 14, figs. 15-17) to which we link it. It seems
probable that it passes over as above stated into the organ interpreted
by Janicki as the re-forming axostyle. This organ differs from the
daughter axostyle in Trichomonas in being continuous from one
daughter nucleus to the other (his pi. 14, figs. 15, 16), a condition
possibly resulting from the reduction of the parent axostyle to a small
"kapital Granula" of Kuczynski. It differs also from the conditions
in Trichomonas in the fact that it seems to include in the axial posi-
tion the disappearing paradesmose. In Trichomonas this disappears
about the time that the daughter axostyles are completed but we have
not been able to trace it into any structural relation to the axostyle.
An alternative explanation is open, namely that the dark axial line
of his figure 16 and possibly also in 15 is derived from the dark axial
lines in the dividing organelle of his figures 10 and 11 which he calls
the blepharoplast, and is not (in his figures 10 and 11) the parades-
mose or his " Spindel." A reinvestigation of a full series of stages is
necessary to establish the correctness of our alternative interpreta-
tion that the axostyle is also derived here by the division of the
ancestral organelle.
The application of the term "Spindel" to the extranuclear strand
or paradesmose between daughter blepharoplasts is objectionable in
view of the recurrence (in Trichomonas, and presumably in Deves-
