TRICHOMONAD FLAGELLATES. 357
covina where intranuclear phenomena are, as far as known, quite
similar) of an intranuclear spindle on which the chromosomes are
divided.
Janicki holds that the chromatic bodies seen in mitosis are not
chromosomes but plurivalent chromatic strands, organized of numer-
ous smaller granules or chromosomes. He figures four of these larger
bodies in the anaphase. In form and arrangement they resemble
the bodies in Trichomonas which we have interpreted as chromosomes.
In view of the complexity and variety of structure of the extra-
nuclear motor apparatus in the Trichonymphida sensu strictu and of
the divergence of results between Janicki and ourselves as to the fate
of the axostyle, of the origin of the division centers at mitosis, and as
to the nature and status of the chromosomes in the group of complex
flagellates, it is very desirable that the process of mitosis be more fully
investigated than has been possible with the limited material thus far
available. The homologies of the axostyle and parabasal in Lopho-
nionas and in the multinucleate trichonymphids with the simple
structures in Trichomonas should be adequately established by a
series of comparative studies in the former group and the history of
organelles traced through the critical late and postmitotic periods.
Conclusions.
1. The upper part of the large intestine of most vertebrates is in-
fected by trichomonad flagellates whose phases of mitosis and mul-
tiple fission occur at intervals and are met with in a few of the many
hosts examined. These processes are carried out during periods of
great amoeboid activity of these parasites in the mucus of the intes-
tinal epithelium.
2. Mitosis is promitotic with nuclear membrane intact throughout
the period of division, with nuclear separation by constriction simu-
lating amitosis. It is, however, essentially mitotic with extranuclear
division centers, intranuclear spindle fibres, chromosome organization
out of a chromatin network and skein.
3. The chromosomes are definite in number, four in Tetratricho-
monas prowazcki, and five in Trichomonas awjusta, T. muris, and
Eutrichomastix serpentis. They are differentiated in form, there
being one small one, and some fairly constant size dift'erences among
the larger ones. They are differentiated in behavior, the small one
