358 KOFOID AND SWEZY.
(in T. muris) having a particular location in the nucleus in the late
prophase, and lagging on the spindle in the metaphase.
4. The chromosomes appear to be split longitudinally prior to
their arrangement in the equatorial plate, and seem to slip into an
end-to-end position in this plate, or to be parted by a transverse con-
striction.
5. The extranuclear organelles all share in the process of mitosis.
The blepharoplast from which flagella, rhizoplast, chromatic margin
and basal rod, and axostyle all take their origin, contains the division
center. It parts into two bodies which go to the two poles of the fusi-
form mitotic nucleus spinning out the deeply staining always extra-
nuclear paradesmose between them.
6. The daughter l)lepharoplasts may each divide in the polar
position into an axial centrosome and an adjacent basal granule to
which flagella, paradesmose, and parabasal are attached. These two
granules subsequently reunite.
7. In its divisions the blepharoplast shows no independent mitotic
phenomena. It is not a "kinetonucleus," and its behavior does not
support the binuclearity hypothesis.
8. The anterior flagella are shared, two and one respectively by
the daughter blepharoplasts and new outgrowths, complete the com-
plement of each daughter organism.
9. The chromatic margin of the undulating membrane represents
an intracytoplasmic posteriorly directed flagellum. It splits longi-
tudinally to the tip of its projecting end. The undulating membratie
below it also splits.
10. The chromatic basal rod is the homologue of the parabasal
body of Parajooiia and the Trichonymphida as established by Janicki.
His so-called parabasal in Trichomonas is in reality only the early
stage in the outgrowth of a new parabasal or chromatic basal rod at
mitosis, hence its rarity and transitory nature. At mitosis a new
parabasal or chromatic basal rod grows out in the base of one of the
new undulating membranes while the old parabasal lies in the other
membrane.
11. The new axostyles of the daughter organisms are formed by
the longitudinal splitting of the old axostyle from the anterior end
posteriorly. They are not formed from the paradesmose (central
spindle) as maintained by Dobell nor anew as claimed by Kuczynski.
12. The axostyle is not primarily a skeletal structure as usually
supposed, nor an organ of fixation as described by Kunstler and
Kuczynski but a locomotor organ used vigorously during the amoeboid
stage in the mucous substrate.
