22
THAXTER.
as far as possible, I have been forced to the conclusion that at least
seven must be recognized on the Javan host, which, although some of
them may be mingled on the same substratum, retain their indiAidu-
ality, without essential departure from their type form. I have even
been uncertain whether the type itself might not properly be sub-
divided. In addition to the eight species here described three others
are known to me; two from Africa and one from South America.
Tettigomyces Gryllotalpae nov. sp.
Colorless to pale straw-colored, sometimes faintly suffused with
brownish. Receptacle variably elongated, slender or rather stout,
nearly uniform throughout, or somewhat broader distally; consisting
of from twelve to forty or more superposed flattened cells which be-
come squarish; the distal one divided by a longitudinal septum into
two cells, one of which subtends the perithecium, while the other
forms the base of the appendage. Perithecium solitary, straight, or
somewhat curved outward, tapering more or less continuously from
the base to the tip, often somewhat inflated below; the tip well, often
abruptly distinguished, narrow and nearly cylindrical, straight or
slightly bent, the apex symmetrically rounded or slightly oblique;
the outer wall-cells 18-21 in each row, the inner 15-19; usually becom-
ing more or less prominent at maturity, so that the outline may be
conspicuously corrugated. Appendage erect, or diverging at right
angles from the perithecium; variably and often abnormally devel-
oped; consisting of from four or five to a dozen, usually somewhat
flattened and obliquely superposed cells, slightly prominent externally,
all of which, except the basal and terminal ones, may bear, on the inner
side, paired double rows of antheridial cells; the terminal cell some-
times bearing also a short sterile branch beside the terminal minute
spine-like process. Perithecia 135-310 X 35-62 /x. Spores 45-50 X
4.5 fji. Appendage 40-60 X 25-40 m- Receptacle 550-1400 X 25-
65 IX. Total length to tip of perithecium 235-1560 /x.
On the inferior surface of the abdomen and on anal appendages of
Gryllotalpa Africana Palis. Samarang, Java.
This species varies very greatly not only in size, as will be seen l)y the
measurements above given, but in the character of its perithecium
and appendage. The latter in the type form is more or less erect
and stout, with the rows of antheridial cells lying subhorizontally or
obliquely inward and upward, and this character is usually associated
