364
KOFOID AND SWEZY
EXPLANATION OF PLATES.
All figures have been made with camera lucida from material in smears from
the intestinal wall fixed in Schaudinn's fluid and stained with Heidenhain's
iron haematoxylin or with alcoholic iron haematoxylin.
PLATE 1.
Trichomonas augusta AlexeiefT, from intestine of Diemyctylus torosus unless
otherwise stated. Trophozoite and early prophase of mitosis. X 2175.
Figure 1. Trophozoite seen from the right side with axostyle overlying the
nucleus and projecting posteriorly, and cytostome at the
anterior end.
Figure 2. The same, with intranuclear chromidial cloud, and cytoplasm
forming a posterior blob enveloping the axostyle.
Figure 3. Trophozoite in contracted condition with undulating membrane
thrown into a spiral, intranuclear chromidial cloud, central
karyosome, and well-defined posterior axostylar ring.
Figure 4. Axostylar chromidia grouped in the capitulum overlying the
nucleus.
Figure 5. Cytostome much elongated, axostylar chromidia distributed,
undulating membrane thrown into a spiral, and removed
posteriorly from the region of the emergence of the axostj'le
(cf. Figs. 3,4).
Figure 6. Early prophase showing first step in splitting of chromatic
margin. Note small vacuoles and two large ones with (para-
sitic?) Micrococcus.
Figure 7. The same, blepharoplast divided, chromatic margin spht to its
posterior end, one new anterior flagellum growing out; axo-
style constricted near the middle; unusually large (abnormal?)
spheroidal chromidial (?) masses in cytoplasm, and axostyle
with median constriction.
Figure 8. Very large trophozoite with undulating membrane, the chromatic
margin and the posterior flagellum completely divided. One
daughter membrane completely detached in preparation of
the smear; one anterior flagellum completely grown out,
many axostylar chromidia, but none in the cytoplasm;
blepharoplast quadripartite.
Figure 9. Large trophozoite in prophase. Extranuclear chromidial cloud
about the nucleus full of fine granules; few cytoplasmic
chromidia present; coarse chromatin skein in nucleus.
Figure 10. The same, with chromatin organized in five chromosomes;
one flagellum growing out.
