366
KOFOID AND SWEZY
PLATE 2.
All figures of Trichomonas augusla Alexeieff unless otherwise stated. Late
prophase to early anaphase of mitosis. X 2175. From Diemyclylus lorosus
unless otherwise stated.
Figure 11. Late prophase, extraiiuclear chromidial cloud with small granules
and cytoplasmic chromidia forming, new chromatic basal rod
growing out, five split pairs of chromosomes present.
Figure 12. The same. Axostyle detached from blepharoplast.
Figure 18. The same, whole organism relatively poor in chromatin, no
chromidial cloud, chromosomes nearing equatorial plate stage.
Figure 14. The same stage as P'igures 11, and 12. Axostyle obscures
nucleus, undulating membranes detached from cytoplasm.
Figure 15. Prophase in a small trophozoite.
Figure 16. The same, in a lai'ge spheroidal trophozoite showing extranuclear
chromidial cloud with cytoplasmic chromidia forming,
axostyle crowded with axostylar chromidia and chromosome
pairs widely parted in two cases, small chromosome pair
anterior.
Figure 17. The same with blepharoplast divided, axostyle widely detached,
two pairs of chromosomes in end-to-end position, small pair
anterior; undulating membranes widely separated, posterior
flagcUum split.
Figure 18. The same stage showing five pairs of chromosomes. Blepharo-
plasts more widely separated.
Figure 19. Late prophase with blepharoplasts widely separated, connected
by a dark paradesmose outside of the still spheroidal nucleus;
three pairs of chromosomes (on lower side) evident, two of
them widely detached; undulating membrane from blepharo-
plast to the left is on the under side below the nucleus.
Figure 20. Small trophozoite at the metaphase. Blepharoplasts at poles
of fusiform nucleus divided at the left and possibly at the right
into lateral basal granule with attached flagella and para-
desmose, and polar centrosome; capitulum of axostyle on the
under surface; five undivided chromosomes on the equatorial
plate; paradesmose closely applied to the outside of the
nuclear membrane. From Rana boylei.
Figure 21. Same stage with left basal granules detached from the polar
centrosome; faint aster about inner pole; five elongated
undivided chromosomes in the equatorial plate; tip of axo-
style bent under the edge of the cytoplasm.
Figure 22. Early anaphase. Blepharoplasts not divided; chromosomes
just parted, one case (central chromosome) of unequal "x-y"
division, small chromosome lagging. Note continued de-
tachment and removal from axostyle of all nuclear and ex-
tranuclear organelles.
Figure 23. Later anaphase. Paradesmose in nearly same relation to x-y
chromosomes as in Figure 22; blepharoplast divided into
basal granule and centrosome.
