NEW INDO-MALAYAN LABOULBENIALES. 23
with a stouter receptacle, the outUne of the perithecium being more
conspicuously corrugaterl and the tip broader, somewhat asymmetrical
and slightly bent distally. The more common type on the abdomen
differs at maturity in possessing a usually more slender receptacle,
which may be very greatly elongated, the appendage projecting at
right angles to the main axis and roughly triangular in outline; the
rows of antheridial cells vertical, or even oblique outward; the sterile
cells decreasing rapidly in size to the tip: the perithecium having a
less prominently corrugated outline, and the tip longer, more abruptly
distinguished, nearly isodiametric, slender, with a symmetrically
rounded apex. A third variation which occurs on the inferior surface
of the thorax and adjacent parts of the abdomen and legs, is usually
smaller and stouter; the appendage becoming very soon disorganized
and remaining as a yellowish mass beside the base of the perithecivmi.
The latter is less characteristic in form; the tip not well distinguished
and stout, the outline hardly corrugated. Although the association
of characters in these three \'ariations is more or less constant, and the
extremes might readily be separated as distinct species, intermediate
conditions are sufficiently numerous to make the series more or less
continuous.
This species is by far the most alnuidant of those described, and
from its large size and conspicuous black foot, is readily seen even with
the naked eye. A species very closely allied, and perhaps identical,
has also been examined from African Gryllotalpac.
Tettigomyces pterophilus nov. sp.
Nearly colorless. Receptacle slender, variably elongated, more or
less uniform above the basal region which may be slightly narrower,
straight, curved, or somewhat sinuous, the cells slightly prominent
and separated by more or less distinct constrictions at the septa.
Appendage, which is assumed to arise opposite the base of the upper-
most perithecium, not distinguished from the receptacle, slender,
elongate, curved outward, tapering to a sterile termination; bearing
at irregular intervals from its inner side, single scattered branches of
variable number, simple or usually not more than once branched, and
resembling the termination of the appendage. Perithecia one to four,
or even five, superposed and arising at variable intervals from the
receptacle, the axial trichogyne more or less persistent and associated
with a small appendage just above it, the l>asal cell of which appears
