24 THAXTER.
to produce a small number of antheridial cells. The perithecium
straight, or somewhat curved outward, tapering continuously from
its hardly inflated base to the tip, which is but slightly distinguished,
nearly conical, the apex bluntly pointed, often surmounted by a short
apiculus; the inner wall-cells twenty-four or less, the outer usually
twenty-six, those below the tip slightly prominent. Perithecia 125-
190 X 25-50 ^t. Spores 45 X 2.5 m- Total length to tip of appendage
400-1000 X 20-30 M-
On the wing-tips of GnjUofalpa Africana Palis. Samarang, Java.
This species was found in considerable numbers on a single individual
of its host, all the others examined being quite free from it. Although
the perithecia are similar to those of T. brcvis, the two species illustrate
the extremes of development in the receptacle of this genus. There
is great variability in the development of different individuals, smaller
forms with siilgle perithecia being nearly as abundant as those in
which several are produced.
Tettigomyces Indicus nov. sp.
Receptacle variably elongated about the same diameter throughout
or somewhat broader below the perithecia, consisting of sixty or fewer
cells superposed in a simple series; the cells much flattened and
irregular. Appendage continuous with the receptacle, not distin-
guished from it, greatly elongated, simple, divergent, distally flexed
inward, tapering; consisting of about eighty or less superposed cells.
Perithecia one to several arising at intervals from the receptacle;
usually solitary, rather stout and short, the body hardly narrower
distally, but very abruptly distinguished from the tip, to the base of
which its outline bends almost at right angles; the tip short and more
or less pointed ; the outer and inner rows of wall-cells having seventeen
and fifteen cells respectively, those immediately below the base of the
tip becoming prominently rounded outward, the lower cells of the
inner row not at all prominent and having half, or less than half the
transverse diameter of the corresponding cells of the outer row.
Perithecia 120 X 44 m- Receptacle 100-230 X 20-28 /jl. Appendage
200-400 M-
On bristles from various parts of Gri/Uotalpa sp., M. C. Z. Scudder
Collection; No. 2678; North India.
Although numerous specimens of this species were obtained but few
are fully matured and from these the perithecial characters ha^•e been
