EXPANSION PROBLEMS. 399
contain roots only in the strip along the axis of reals which r^^z-i
has in common with Ta, so that a finite number of roots at most are
to be added to those already found. By a change in the value of g,
if necessary, the expression given above can be made to account for
all the characteristic values.
It is evident a priori that if the coefficients in the diflFerential equa-
tion and in the boundary conditions are real, the conjugate of any
characteristic value will also be a characteristic value, and it follows
that all the characteristic values with the exception of a finite number
will be actually and not merely asymptotically real. We do not
restrict ourselves to this case, however.
To each characteristic value from a certain point on corresponds
just one characteristic function. For, ^* as we have already had
occasion to observe, the determinant Ai has first minors which are
always different from zero when p is sufficiently large, and it follows
that the same is true of A. An expression for the characteristic func-
tion un{x) may be obtained by replacing the t-th. element in the last
row of A(pn) by ?/((.r, pn), t = I, 2,. . ., v; it is seen that the result of
subjecting the expression so obtained to any one of the operations
Wg, s = 1, 2. . ., V — I, may be written as a determinant in which
two rows are alike, while the result of the operation Wv is the vanishing
determinant A(p7.) itself. Inasmuch as a factor independent of x
is immaterial, a characteristic solution may be obtained equally well
by inserting the functions i/f {.v, pn) in place of the elements of the last
row of Ai. It is the latter more convenient form of solution that we
24 As a matter of fact, the mere observation that the characteristic value
is a root of the first order for A suffices to show that there can not be more
than one characteristic function; cf., e. g., Goursat, Annales de la Faculte
des Sciences de I'Universite de Toulouse, deuxieme serie, 10, 5-9S (1908);
pp. 37-38; Birkhoff III, p. 118. A proof is as follows: The derivative of A
with regard to p may be written as a sum of v determinants, in each of which
v — 1 rows are identical with the corresponding rows of A, while the elements
of the remaining row are the derivatives of the corresponding elements of A.
The cofactors of these derivatives in the several determinants are of course first
minors of A, except as to algebraic sign. If p„ is a characteristic value to
which two linearly independent characteristic functions correspond, the
first minors of A are all zero for p = p„, and the derivative of A consequently
vanishes. That is, there can not be two independent characteristic functions
for Pn unless p„ is at least a double root of A. This general fact will be assumed
in the later discussion of other sets of boundary conditions. It is clear that
similar reasoning shows that for a root of anv order of multiplicity the number
of linearly independent characteristic functions can never be greater than the
order indicates; cf. Goursat, loc. cit., p. 44. I do not know whether the proof
indicated here is to be found in the literature or not; it is the one which
Professor Bocher gives in his lectures.
