NEW INDO-MALAYAN LABOULBENIALES. 25
taken. No signs of antheridial cells have been seen, and the append-
age appears to be simple, without sterile branches. The general habit
is somewhat like that of T. pfvrophUu.s, although it is at once dis-
tinguished by the form of its mature perithecium. In only one of the
specimens examined are two perithecia matured.
Tettigomyces chaetophilus nov. sp.
Quite hyaline. Receptacle stout somewhat broader distally, con-
sisting of from four to eight single superposed cells, which may be
followed by from one to three cells once divided longitudinally; the
cells separated on the perithecial side much smaller than those which
are continuous with the appendage. Appendage erect, its axis coinci-
dent with that of the receptacle, sometimes slightly curved outward
distally, consisting of from seven to seventeen flattened superposed
cells, two or three of the distal ones bearing sterile branches succes-
sively or irregularly from the inner side; the terminal cell usually
bearing two such branches; the latter simple or once branched, com-
paratively slender, short, and tapering. Perithecium divergent and
strongly curved outward, especially distally, the main body tapering
only just below the tip ; which is abruptly distinguished, rather short
and stout, the distal and basal halves well distinguished, the distal
tapering more rapidly to the bluntly pointed apex which may be
slightly apiculate; the outer and inner rows of wall-cells containing
usually twenty and eighteen cells respectively; the cells of the inner
row, except about three just below the tip which are larger, having
about one quarter to one third the transverse diameter of those in
the outer row. Perithecia 100-120 X 2S-3o m- Receptacle 40-75 X
30-40 IX. Appendage 50-100 /x. Total length to tip of perithecium
150-200 IX, including the foot (40 m) which is sharply pointed
below.
On bristles of the 'abdominal antennae' of Grylloialpa Africnna
Palis. Samarang, Java.
This species is more nearly allied to T. galeata from which it is at
once distinguished by its smaller size, and the entirely different con-
formation at the tip of the perithecium. The extreme dift'erence
between the transverse diameter of the cells of the outer row of wall-
cells and those of the inner distinguish it from all other known forms,
with the exception of T. Indicus.
