26 THAXTER.
Tettigomyces galeatus nov. sp.
Quite hyaline. Receptacle broader distally, often much narrower
toward the base, both margins usually even, consisting of from six to
ten superposed flattened cells, followed by from three to six tiers of
two cells each; those on the perithecial side smaller, and becoming
divided radially and longitudinally, so that there are actually three
cells in each tier. Appendage consisting of from six to nine cells,
much flattened, and forming an erect, or usually but slightly divergent
series; the terminal cell bearing two simple branches, two or three
of the cells immediately below also bearing single simple stout tapering
branches, usually absent from the remaining lower cells, from which
double or single series of antheridial cells are separated on the inner
side so as to form a more or less well defined antheridial cushion. Peri-
thecium relatively large and stout, distinctly inflated below, when
mature; tapering at first abruptly, then hardly perceptibly to the
broad short tip which is well defined by an abrupt indentation of the
margin on the outer, and a slight indentation followed by a slight
elevation, on the inner side; the inner lip-cell forming a broad bluntly
rounded terminal projection with small lumen, extending some distance
beyond the pore which is lateral and external; the lateral lip-cells
forming small papillae symmetrically placed on either side, and the
outer lip-cell forming a similar, often less distinct subtending papilla,
the whole tip having thus a somewhat galeate hal)it. Perithecia
190-225 X 55-75 /x. Receptacle 100-140 X 60-SO m- Total length
to tip of perithecium 250-400 /x.
On the inferior surface of abdomen of Gryllotalpa Africana Palis.
Samarang, Java.
This species occurred somewhat rarely in the material examined.
It is easily distinguished from its nearest ally T. confusus by its galeate
tip and sul^erect appendage, which also differs in the absence of
branches near its base.
Tettigomyces confusus nov. sp.
Receptacle slightly broader distally, or nearly the same diameter
throughout ; consisting of from six to ten cells superposed in a single
series, followed by from two to five tiers of two cells each; those on the
perithecial side smaller, and usually divided in a radial vertical plane
