THE MECHANICS OF TELEPHONE-RECEIVER DIA-
PHRAGMS, AS DERIVED FROM THEIR MOTIONAL-
IMPEDANCE CIRCLES.
By a. E. KJENNELLY AND H. A. Affel.
Received June 11, 1915.
The following research was carried on, at the Massachusetts Insti-
tute of Technology, under an appropriation from the American Tele-
graph and Telephone Co. during the year 1914-1915. The experi-
mental work was carried out at Pierce Hall, Harvard University.
This research constitutes a continuation and extension of that
reported to the Academy in September 1912, under the title of "The
Impedance of Telephone Receivers, as affected by the Motion of their
Diaphragms," ^ by A. E. Kennelly and G. W. Pierce. In that paper
of 1912, it was shown that the impedance of a telephone receiver is
different, when the diaphragm is free to vibrate, from that which it
offers when the diaphragm's motion is damped or prevented. The
difference between the "free" impedance as the frequency is varied,
and the "damped" impedance, is called the "motional impedance,"
and measures the velocity of the diaphragm's vibration. When
plotted vectorially, this "motional impedance" is found to be a
circle passing through the origin of coordinates, and with its diameter
depressed through a certain angle. Every telephone receiver and
diaphragm possesses its own characteristic motional-impedance circle.
The characteristics of this circle, in regard to diameter, depression
angle, and distribution of frequency positions, determine certain
electrical and mechanical properties of the instrument. Examples
of such circle diagrams appear in this paper in Figures 4 and 14.
It was shown in the 1912 paper above referred to, that there are four
constants of an ordinary telephone receiver which determine the essen-
tials of its behavior, both electrically and mechanically, throughout
the range of ordinary telephonic frequencies (100 to 2500 i^ ).
If we consider the impedance of a telephone receiver with the
diaphragm prevented from vibrating, and thus incapable of reacting
electromagnetically on the coils, when the latter are excited by alter-
nating current, we find that, as might be expected, the impedance of
1 See Bibliography, No. 11.
