NEW INDO-MALAYAX LABOULBENIALES. 27
SO that each tier becomes three-celled. Appendage not distinguished
from the receptacle, consisting of usually six successively smaller cells;
the series somewhat curved outward, and bearing irregularly paired
simple, stout, tapering branches from the inner side; the basal cells
of which, above the base of the perithecium, produce more or less con-
spicuous groups of antheridial cells. Perithecium relatively short and
stout, sometimes shorter than the receptacle, more or less evenly
inflated below at maturity, tapering evenly to the tip, which is short,
stout, and barely distinguished: the inner lip-cell prolonged to form
a short blunt appendage; two, which are outer or lateral, ending in
rounded prominences somewhat variably placed, forming two more
or less distinct papillae lying side by side; the fourth forming a pointed
apex which subtends the prolongation of the fu'st; wall-cells variably,
usually conspicuously prominent, those in the outer rows twenty to
twenty-four, in the inner eighteen to twenty in number. Perithecia
120-200 X 40-60 m- Appendage 40 m; its branches 100 X 20 ^ at
base. Receptacle 80-175 X 32-50 m- Total length to tip of perithe-
cium 230-390 M-
On abdominal ' antennae ' of Gryllotalpa Africana Palis. Samarang,
Java.
This species is very closely allied to T. galcafus, but is at once dis-
tinguished by the conformation of the tip of the perithecium which
does not vary essentially in any of the numerous individuals examined.
Tettigomyces brevis nov. sp.
Nearly colorless. Receptacle short and broad, the foot large and
broad; consisting of from three to seven single superposed much
flattened cells, followed by from one to three cells once longitudinally
divided, this biseriate portion continuous with the appendage on one
side and the base of the perithecium on the other. Appendage not
distinguished from the receptacle, consisting of a series of from five
to eight much flattened successively smaller cells which curves out-
ward, or may be even recurved somewhat; all the cells bearing rather
stout erect or somewhat curved septate tapering branches of variable
length, which arise more or less in pairs from basal cells associated
with numerous antheridial cells which are more or less distinctly \isible
as a rule. Perithecia variably elongated, the base slightly broader,
tapering, usually very slightly, to the short stout tip; which is moder-
ately well distinguished; the apex broad, slightly asymmetrical.
