TELEPHONE DIAPHRAGMS. 431
The above data provide only three equations, (1), (2) and (3),
whereas there are four unknown quantities to be determined; namely,
A, VI, r and s. A fourth independent equation, containing an addi-
tional experimental relation, is needed, in order to determine these
four constants.
For supplying the missing fourth equation, it should be sufficient,
theoretically, either to measure any one of the four constants directly,
by an independent method ; or to alter any one of the three constants
m, r, and s, to a known extent, without changing the others, and then
to repeat the circle diagram. From the difference between the circle
diagrams, taken before and after the change, a fourth and independ-
ent equation should be forthcoming.
Object of the New Research here Reported.
The object of the research here described, was to ascertain how the
missing fourth equation might best be obtained for evaluating a,
m, r, and s. Several methods have been tried, and one, in particular,
is recommended. Certainly by this preferred method, or perhaps by
one of the other methods, these four constants can now be measured
for any telephone receiver. Numerical values of these constants are
tabulated for certain receivers.
Attention has also been given to the effects of variations in struc-
ture and environment, upon the motional-impedance circle diagram,
and on the characteristic constants. Nearly one hundred circle
diagrams, in all, on various receivers, have been made and examined
during the course of the work.
Evaluation of the Telephone-Receiver Characteristic Con-
stants .1, m, r, AND s.
The following methods have either been tried or suggested, at differ-
ent times, for evaluating the characteristic constants of a telephone
receiver.
(1) By the direct measurement of a.
" " " " s.
m.
(4) By loading the diaphragm with a known mass at the center.
(5) By varying the elastic constant s.
(6) By measuring the amplitudes of vibration over the air-gap.
(2)
(3)
