432 KENNELLT AND AFFEL.
Direct Measurement of a and s.
The direct measurement of both A and s, without reference to a
circle diagram, was described by Abraham,^ whose theory, for the
particular case investigated, was limited to the use of these two con-
stants only.
The direct measurement of a involves the determination of the pull
on the diaphragm, excited by a known feeble continuous-current
strength. It is doubtful whether satisfactory close approximations
to the value of a can be made by continuous-current excitations;
since alternating-current excitations are actually involved. With an
exciting current strength of the same order of magnitude as is available
with alternating-currents, the amount of diaphragm displacement is
exceeding small, usually less than half of one micron;^ whereas with
a. c. excitation, at the resonant frequency, the displacements are com-
monly increased 30 times, and may be increased more than 50 times.
The direct measurement of a is thus difficult, and subject to correction,
for the change from continuous to alternating magnetic fluxes.
Direct Measurement of s.
Theoretically, the measurement of the elastic constant s of a dia-
phragm, in observing the central displacements produced by centrally
impressed forces, appears both simple and promising. This measure-
ment appears to have been first carried out by Abraham, in the pub-
lication above referred to; although the method is not disclosed.
Attempts were made in the research here reported to measure s by
means of the apparatus shown in Figure 8. The receiver T is mounted
vertically, and the lever ab, fulcromed at F, and maintained in equilib-
rium by means of the counterpoise c, when the weight w is absent. A
blunt point, on the loAver side of this lever, is pressed down against
the surface of the diaphragm, when the known weight w is applied.
The force, in dynes, impressed on the center of the diaphragm is thus
known. The point p of the micrometer screw-head M, comes into
contact with the top of the lever ab, the moment of contact being
determined electrically by the head telephones H, in the circuit i.
5 Bibliography, No. 6.
6 1 micron, commonly represented by 1 ju = 10"*^ meter = 10~^ mm.
