440 KENNELLY AND AFFEL.
resistance of the load in air. Column IX gives the computed stiffness-
constant s, as computed from formulas (1) and (4). Theoretically,
this stiffness coefficient should remain unchanged throughout. Ac-
cording to the Table, it varied between 30.86 and 30.38 megadynes
per cm. Column X gives the force-factor a according to formulas (10)
and (11). It will be seen that as the load was increased, and the
natural frecjuency reduced, this force-factor increased from 6.114 to
7.627 megadynes per absampere. This increase may be explained
by the change in penetration of the alternating magnetic flux into the
substance of the core and poles, as the frequency is changed.^ This
change in the force factor a tends to distort the motional-impedance
circle to some extent; but since, in the majority of instances, most of
the circumference is covered within the range of 100 cycles per second,
the actual distortion of the diagram on this account is seldom serious.
The method of computing the telephone-receiver characteristic
constants by means of mass added to the diaphragm, as outlined above,
involves the assumption expressed in (5) that the equivalent mass m
of the diaphragm is the same in both the loaded and unloaded states.
The theory of the equivalent mass of a diaphragm is outlined in
Appendix II. It will be seen that the equivalent mass is always equal
to the actual mass of the vibrating area, or area within the clamping
boundary of the diaphragm, multiplied by a numerical coefficient,
which may be called the "equivalent-mass factor," whose value de-
pends upon the distribution of vibration amplitudes over the entire
vibrating surface. If the entire acti\e surface of the diaphragm could
vibrate with the same amplitude as actually exists at the center, the
equivalent-mass factor would be unity. Since the amplitude must
diminish towards the boundary, the factor is always less than unity,
and may lie, say between the limits 0.15 and 0.50, ordinarily between
0.2 and 0.3. When a mass ?»i, is added to the center of a diaphragm,
it is apt to disturb the distribution of amplitude over the vil)rating
surface, and thus change the equivalent mass m of the diaphragm,
considered alone; so that the total equivalent mass of the loaded
diaphragm is no longer m + nii. The amount of the disturbance in in
created by the load will depend upon various factors, such as the
geometry of the diaphragm, the position of the electromagnetic poles,
and the magnitude of the load mi; so that a load which might appreci-
ably disturb the equivalent mass of one receiver diaphragm, might
not appreciably affect the equivalent mass of another. ^° In the case
9 The theory of this effect has been developed by Dr. R. L. Jones, and is
expected to be pubUshed shortly.
10 Bibliography, No. 17.
