442 KENNELLY AND AFFEL.
It will be seen that the equivalent mass of the diaphragm alone, as
deduced from observations unloaded and with some one load, vary from
1.88 to 1.42 gms., whereas the equivalent mass, as deduced from obser-
vations with different loads, only varies between 1.15 and 1.18 gms.
Owing to the possibility of introducing a change in the equivalent
mass, or other constants of the unloaded diaphragm by the addition
of a load, the method of determining m by adding loads should be
considered as open to criticism, unless sufficiently checked.
Method of Maximltm Resonant Amplitude Measurement over
AN Air-Gap.
It is shown at the end of Appendix I, that if the maximum c^-clic
amplitude of vibration is known at a point on the diaphragm over an
air-gap, and also the maximum cyclic alternating-current strength
producing this vibration, the missing fourth relation is arrived at;
so that with the aid of the motional-impedance circle, all four char-
acteristic constants are determinable. This method should have the
advantages, that it need not interfere appreciably with either the
structure, or the normal mode of operation, of the telephone receiver.
It also has the advantage that the amplitude of vibration, which is
usually so small for the feeble currents of normal operating strength,
becomes very appreciable at the resonant frequency, and is ordinaril\'
about 5 microns per milliampere of testing current. Strictly speaking,
the amplitude should be measured over the air-gap, whose cyclic
variation induces the motional emf. ; but ordinarily, it suffices to
measure the amplitude at or near to the center of the diaphragm.
The method was evolved from the experimental exploration of ^■ibra-
tion in diaphragms, ^^ and the apparatus used is a simplified form of
such an explorer, for measurements at the center, instead of at any
or all points on the surface.
Amplitude Measurer.
The amplitude measurer is illustrated in Figs. 10 and 11. The
brass clamping frame f can be attached to the cap of any ordinary
receiver, and serves to support the working parts of the instrument.
12 Bibliography, No. 17.
