28 THAXTER.
flattened, or irregularly rounded; the wall-cells more or less con-
spicuously prominent, except distally ; the outer rows containing from
twenty-seven to fifty cells, the inner from twenty-three to forty-one.
Spores slender, 50 X 3 /i. Perithecia 200-450 X 40-60 m- Appendage
about 40-60 /j., the branches about 120-150 /z. Receptacle 25-75 X
40-60 M- Total length 230-550 fx.
On the inferior margin of the abdomen of GnjUofalpa Africana Palis.,
Samarang, Java.
This species is very clearly distinguished by its short receptacle and
more or less indefinitely elongated perithecium, the basal cells of which
are more clearly defined than in some other species of the genus, and
form an irregular cell-group at the junction of the appendage and
receptacle. The appendage, though it bears numerous erect branches
in a tuft, often shows a copious formation of antheridial cells, the
arrangement of which is very irregular as compared with that seen in
the type species. It is most nearly related to T. acuminatus.
Tettigomyces acuminatus nov. sp.
Nearly colorless. Receptacle stout, consisting of six to eleven flat-
tened superposed cells often paired, followed by three or four which are
once or twice longitudinally divided, the distal tier always of three
cells, two of which are smaller, isodiametric and subtend the base of
the perithecium ; while the third, which is nearly twice as large, sub-
tends the appendage; the cells on the perithecial side, especially just
above the foot, more or less prominent singly or in pairs, the opposite
margin usually even. Appendage consisting of eight or more flattened
cells from which a cell is separated on the inner side bearing a furcate
branch; the antheridial cells inconspicuous or lacking. Perithecia
rather stout, curved slightly outward, considerably and somewhat
asynnnetrically inflated, tapering rather rapidly to the tip, which is
abruptly distinguished above the rounded termination of the rest of
the perithecium; tapering, relatively long, one or all four of the lip-
cells prolonged to form a slender sharp process; wall-cells hardly
prominent, except sometimes near the base on the inner side; the outer
rows consisting of from twenty-four to twenty-six cells, the inner of
twenty-two to twenty-four. Perithecia 150-200 X 40-60 fx. Spores
(in perithecium) 40-45 X 3.5 m- Receptacle SO X 40 ix. Total length
to tip of perithecium 250-310 /x.
