NEW INDO-MALAYAN LABOULBENIALES. 31
of the subbasal cell, which is also continuous with a similarly blackened
branch, the whole forming a black outcurved or even recurved process
from the convex side of which one or two hyaline erect branches or
branchlets arise. Secondary receptacles variously developed, typi-
cally two, growing in opposite directions, rather slender and usually
curved; their basal cells short, and giving rise at once to the first
perithecium and antheridial appendage; the second much longer,
bearing the second perithecium and antheridium distally; the third
still longer and usually terminated by two antheridia. In less well
developed specimens only one branch may develop, with a single
perithecium and antheridium; or both, if developed, may be much
shorter and the habit more compact. Perithecia somewhat variable,
typically with a well developed stalk-cell, which is narrower in the
middle and broader distally than the small compact basal cell-region
of the perithecium; which is abruptly distinguished, also, from the
suddenly inflated venter above ; the venter short, the rest of the body
long, tapering evenly to the blunt point, the junctions of the wall-
cells indicated by two successive elevations by which a neck and tip
are distinguished. Antheridia relatively long and slender, the basal
cell-pair and the subbasal about equal; the cells of the two antheri-
dial pairs bulging distally so that this portion of the antheridium is
marked by successive elevations and depressions; the distal cells
giving rise to from two to four usually curved rather short branches.
Perithecia; longest, including basal cells 135X34;u; stalk-cell
40 X 12 ;u. Body of antheridium 58 X 9 )U, but very variable.
Total length to tip of perithecium, longest 200 ijl.
On various parts of Stcnusa Ccyhnica Kr. No. 2085, Samarang,
Java.
The short compact forms occur on the legs, the more highly de-
veloped specimens on the abdomen and elsewhere. Although not
departing widely from the usual type this species does not appear to
be nearly allied to any other form, when well developed.
Monoicomyces Amauroderae nov. sp.
Hyaline, except for the brownish yellow perithecia. Basal and
subbasal cells about equal in size, hardly longer than broad; the
primary appendage simple, consisting of five or six superposed cells;
the basal cell bent abruptly upward from the receptacle, and distin-
guished by a small !)lack septum. Fertile branches typically two
