TELEPHONE DIAPHRAGMS. 481
List of Symbols Employed.
A Force factor of an electromagnetic receiver (dynes/absampere) .
Ai "_ " "a loaded " " "
a Radius of a circular disk, or of a diaphragm, within clamping
circle (cm).
a, a I a-z Phase angles whose tangents are mechanical reactance factors
(radians or degrees).
ab- or abs- Prefix denoting a C. G. S. magnetic unit.
3?o Mean flux density over air-gap or gaps in receivers, due to perma-
nent magnets (gausses).
/3 = ^-^ — Mean phase angle of force factor.
/3i /S-. Phase lags of force and of induced emf . (radians or degrees).
A = r/(2m) Damping constant of a receiver diaphragm. Numeric per second.
d Sign of differentiation.
emf. Contraction for electromotive force.
€x Motionally induced emf. in windings, at any instant, (abvolts Z ).
e = 2.71828 Napierian base.
exm M aximum cyclic value of motional emf . (abvolts) .
F Fi F2 Maximum cyclic value of a vmf . (dynes).
/ Frequency of alternation . (cycles per second) .
Also vibromotive force (vmf.) on a diaphragm, (dynes Z ).
/o Resonant frequency of alternation, (cycles per second) .
fi Instantaneous value of a vmf. due to an alt. current i absamperes
(dynes Z ) .
fm Maximum cyclic value of vmf. (dynes).
7 Angle of equiangular spiral in free oscillation, (radians or de-
grees) .
I Root mean square value of sinusoidal alternating current,
(absamperes)
Im Maximum cyclic value- of sinusoidal alt. current at resonance,
(absamperes) .
i Instantaneous value of sinusoidal alt. current in winding, (ab-
samperes) .
> .= V^T.
kine 1 cm. per sec. (unit velocity in C. G. S. system).
L Inductance of receiver winding damped, (abhenrys).
Li " " " " free, (abhenrys).
M Total active mass of diaphragm within clamping circle, (grams).
m Equivalent mass of a diaphragm, (grams) .
mi Massattached to the center of a diaphragm as load, (grams).
M Symbol for 10~^ mm., or 1 micron.
N Number of turns in winding of a receiver, including both poles,
(numeric) .
n Number of annuli into which a vibrating diaphragm may be sup-
posed to be divided . (numeric) .
Pm Maximum cyclic mechanical power in diaphragm, (abwatts or
ergs/sec) .
5! Permeance of magnetic circuit to alternating mmfs. (oersted)"'.
TT = 3.14159
R Resistance of receiver winding, diaphragm damped, (absohms
or ohms).
R' Resistance of receiver winding, diaphragm free (absohms or ohms).
