482 KENNELLY AND AFFEL.
eH Reluctance of Magnetic Circuit to alternating mmfs. (oersteds).
r Equivalent motional resistance of a diaphragm, (dynes/kine) .
r In theory of equivalent mass, the radius of a point on diaphragm.
(cm).
pi Superficialdensity of diaphragm, (gm/sq. cm.)
s Stiffness constant of a diaphragm, (dynes per cm.)
t Time elapsed from a certain epoch . (seconds) .
vmf. Contraction for vibromotive force, or alternating mechanical
force tending to set up vibration, (dynes Z ).
W Maximum cyclic kinetic energy of diaphragm, (ergs).
Wr Maximum cyclic kinetic energy of an annulus of width dr, and
radius r. (ergs).
X Reactance of receiver winding, diaphragm damped, (absohms or
ohms).
X* Reactance of receiver winding, diaphragm free, (absohms or
ohms) .
XY Cartesian rectangular coordinates in a plane.
X Vibratory displacement of a diaphragm, at any time, from its
static position of rest. (cm).
Xm Maximum cyclic vibratory displacement of diaphragm at any
frequency, (cm).
Xo Maximum cyclic vibration amplitude at center of diaphragm.
X Vibratory velocity of a diaphragm at any time, (kines Z ).
Xm Maximumcyclic vibratory velocity of diaphragm, (kines).
X Vibratory acceleration of a diaphragm at any time, (kines/sec).
Xi Initial velocity of a simple vibrator subject to damping, (kines) .
xh xh x\ Maximum cyclic displacements at mid-radii of annular diaphragm
segments, (cm).
Xr Vibrational amplitude of diaphragm at radius r, and any instant
(cm).
Z Motional impedance of a receiver at any frequency, (absohms Z ) .
Zm Zms Maximum or diametral amplitude of motional impedance at
resonance, (absohms). .
z = r + jz Mechanical impedance of diaphragm, (dynes/kine Z ) •
w Angular velocity of vibratory simple-harmonic motion (radians/
sec).
wo Angular velocity of vibratory simple-harmonic motion at reso-
nance (radians/sec).
co' Free angular velocity in presence of damping, (radians/sec.)
woi Resonant angular velocity of a loaded diaphragm, (radians/sec.)
Z Sign of a complex quantity.
<^5 Symbol for "cycles-per-second."
