DEVELOPMENT OF AGARICIA. 487
PART I. ON THE LARVAL DEVELOPMENT.
1. General Considerations.
a. Breeding Season.
The jBrst larvae of Agaricia fragilis were obtained from a colony of
the coral collected in a cave on the shore of Agar's Island, Bermuda,
on July 8th, 1907. The colony, which was about eight or nine centi-
meters in diameter, was brought to the laboratory in the morning
and placed in fresh sea water in a battery jar. In the afternoon
numerous pear-shaped, light brown, larvae were seen swimming about
in the water. Other colonies collected from a cave on Tucker's
Island on July 15th when placed in fresh sea water in the laboratory
gave off similar larvae. In 1908 larvae were obtained from seven
out of eleven colonies over 5 cm. in diameter collected from Long
Island, Bermuda, between the 22nd and 30th of June. No larvae
were obtained from nine colonies under 5 cm. in diameter collected
on June 21st and 22nd from the same place.
These observations show that Agaricia fragilis may be found breed-
ing at the Bermuda Islands during the latter part of June and the first
part of July.
b. Extrusion of the Larvae.
For the purpose of obtaining the larvae, adult colonies of Agaricia
fragilis were collected in caves and brought to the laboratory in
battery jars. During the transference to the laboratory it is probable
that in many cases the temperature of the water containing the coral
was raised above the temperature of the water in the cave. Larvae
were often extruded in large numbers while the corals were being trans-
ported to the laboratory and during the few hours immediately suc-
ceeding this. What the factors were which produced their extrusion
was not determined. Usually, however, not all of the larvae were
extruded at this time, a certain number being seen to remain within
the parent colony.
c. Form of the Larva.
The planula, which is light brown in color, is capable of considerable
change of form. It may, however, be described as piriform, the
