488 MAYOR.
broader, rounded end being aboral and in advance during swimming,
while the oral opening is situated at the more pointed posterior end.
The alterations in form may be of two kinds; first, elongation, with
corresponding decrease in the radial axis, or shortening, with corre-
sponding increase in the radial axis ; or, secondly, a contraction of one
side of the planula so that the aboral end, which in such cases is
usually somewhat flattened, becomes turned to one side. In Sideras-
trea radians Duerden (:04) found the broad rounded end of the larva
to be the oral end.
The elongated form is the one usually assumed by the larva when
swimming rapidly through the water. The larva takes a more defi-
nitely piriform shape when it swims slowly over the substratum. In
the latter case there may be a slight in-pushing of the aboral end form-
ing a hollow in the center. This hollowing out of the center suggests
a mechanism working by suction. When the larva comes to rest and
applies itself to the substratum, it becomes hemispherical, the aboral
end being the flat side of the hemisphere and applied to the substratum.
Later these larvae may become almost disk shaped. In the preserved
specimens the shape is usually either piriform or almost hemispherical.
After having become hemispherical and applied to the substratum,
the planula may detach itself, elongate and swim away.
d. Fixation.
The planula swims with the broader, rounded, aboral end foremost,
as already stated, rotating on its longitudinal axis as it does so. In
Siderastrea radians, which has the mouth at the broader end of its
piriform larva, Duerden (:04) found that, as is the case in Agaricia
fragilis, the aboral end is kept in front. From this it would seem that
while the form of the larva of Siderastraea is favorable for locomotion
that of Agaricia must satisfy other conditions than that of offering
the least resistance to forward motion.
Larvae after they are expelled from the parent colony are usually
elongated in shape and swim through the water rapidly. Later they
become shorter and broader and swim more slowly. The normal
course seems to be for them to affix themselves to the substratum
within a few hours after they have been extruded. In the laboratory
larvae which did not become fixed in about twenty-four hours after
extrusion did not do so when kept for seven days, although during
this time they continued to swim through the water and also, as flat
