32 THAXTER.
growing in opposite directions, sometimes more; usually consisting
of a single cell somewhat longer than broad, distally pointed, and
bearing the antheridium and perithecium which diverge right and left
at nearly a right angle. Stalk-cell of perithecium very elongate,
abruptly distinguished by a slight distal enlargement from the basal
cell-region, which is also relatively very large and long, and slightly
broader distally than the venter of the relatively small perithecium
which is hardly inflated and not distinguished from the usually curved
rather elongate distal portion which tapers slightly to the l)lunt apex;
the tip hardly or not at all distinguished. Stalk-cells of the antheri-
dium relatively very long, (each al)out eight or nine times as long as
broad), the basal pair broader distally and, abruptly distinguished from
the narrower base of the second pair which is shorter and also distinctly
broader distally; abruptly distinguished from the two pairs above,
the cells of the upper smaller and separated from the lower by a distinct
constriction, bearing directly two terminal appenflages, one usually
longer than the other, sometimes only one, without evident basal cells
in some instances. Perithecium: stalk-cell 156-275 X 20 /i; basal
cell-region 55-65 X 20-28 /x; main body 118 X 20-25 m- Spores 30 X
4 M- Antheridia 62-82 X 18-20 m- Receptacle 32 m- Primary ap-
pendage 125-175 X 10-15 /i. Antheridial appendages 40-150X8^1.
On the inferior abdomen and thorax of Amaurodvra Kraepclini
Fauv. No. 2078, Samarang, Java.
A species well distinguished by its peculiar long-stalked perithecium,
with highly developed basal cells, and its simple primary appendages,
as well as by its unusually elongate antheridial appendages.
Monoicomyces denticulatus nov. sp.
Basal cell hyaline slightly narrower distally, somewhat broader than
long; subbasal cell hyaline much smaller, bearing distally the some-
what divergent primary appendage which is distinguished by a black-
ish brown septum and consists of a single cell, nearly twice as long as
broad, stout, distally rounded and externally rather deeply suffused
with blackish brown. Fertile branches two; consisting of single
more or less deeply suffused cells, which arise on either side of the sub-
basal cell, and bear single antheridia and perithecia. Antheridial
appendages symmetrically paired, slightly smoky, their stalk-cells
hardly distinguishable from the basal cells, deeply suffused externally,
nearly twice as long as broad, the two pairs above much smaller, both
