490 MAYOR.
which the conclusions of the paper are based. Although only indi-
vidual differences have been observed between the opposite sides of
the bilaterally symmetrical planulae, it has been thought best for
convenience in description to distinguish a right and a left side.
In this connection the aboral end of the planula, which is foremost in
locomotion, has been considered anterior while the oral end is con-
sidered posterior.
Each larva was cut into a series of transverse sections of equal thick-
ness, which varied from 5 /x to 7 ^i for the different series. In record-
ing the position of structures in the larvae the thickness of the sections
has been used as a unit of measure.
The nine larvae fall into four groups: — First, larva A, which has
four pairs of mesenteries, only two of which are well developed ; Second,
larvae B, C, D, and E, in which there are six pairs of mesenteries, the
fifth and sixth however being only slightly developed and the mesen-
terial filaments not extending the whole length of the larva; Third,
larvae F, G and H, in which all six mesenteries are well developed
and the mesenterial filaments of the first two pairs of mesenteries
extend through the greater part of the larvae; Fourth, larva I, in
which, besides the greater development of the fifth and sixth pairs
of mesenteries, there are developed mesenterial filaments on the
third pair of mesenteries.
The musculature of the mesenteries consists of fibres developed in
endoderm cells where these abut on the mesogloea. These fibres
stain deeply with haematoxylin and so are easily distinguished in the
preparations. In the mesenteries the majority of these fibres run
longitudinally. Some, however, especially those near the junction
of the mesogloea of the mesentery with that of the body wall, run
obliquely or even transversely. It is not always easy to deter-
mine which side of the mesentery shows the large number of fibres;
first, because the mesogloea in the mesenteries is usually very thin
and does not take stain well, and, secondly, because there are always
some fibres on each side. This is still more difficult in the newly
formed mesenteries, as in these there is almost always an approxi-
mately equal number of fibres on each side of the mesentery. The
distribution of the muscle fibres given in the diagram (text Fig. 1, C)
is based on careful examination with a 2-mm. apochromatic objec-
tive and compensating oculars x8 and xl2. In the first and second
pairs of mesenteries the muscle fibres are confined almost entirely to
the ventral sides. In the third and fourth pairs, the directives, the
muscle fibres are more numerous on the lateral sides. In the fifth
