492 MAYOR.
At the oral end the ectoderm of the body wall is folded in to form
the oesophagus and the filaments of the first two pairs of mesenteries.
At its oral end the oesophagus forms a complete tube. Aborally it
becomes divided dorsally so that it extends for some distance as a
scoop-shaped structure, U-shaped in cross section. In the following
descriptions the point where the oesophagus ceases to be a complete
tube and becomes scoop-shaped is expressed by saying that it is
interrupted dorsally.
b. Description of the Mesenteries, Mesenterial Filaments and Gastro-
vascular Cavities of the Larvae Studied.
Group I. Larva A.
In this larva (text, Fig. 1) the first two pairs of primary mesen-
teries are well developed and there are indications of the third and
fourth pairs. The larva was fixed in Flemming's chromo-aceto-
osmic mixture and the sections were stained with Heidenhain's iron
haematoxylin. The aboral end of the larva was sectioned first
and the sections are almost exactly transverse, the ventral side of the
oral end, however, extends six sections beyond the dorsal side, a
deviation from the transverse which cannot be detected at the aboral
end. The sections are 7 micra thick and there are 56 of them in all.
Text-figure 1 shows a.t A, a reconstructed longitudinal section passing
through the mesenterial filaments of the first pair of mesenteries.
The horizontal dotted lines are drawn in the planes of sections and
each of the numbers at the side of the figure indicates the number
of the section to which the line corresponds, beginning with the oral
end. The figure shows that the aboral end of the larva is flattened
and contains a slight concavity. This shape may be due to con-
traction on the application of the fixing fluid, but larvae of this form
were observed in the living state. At B, C, D, E, and F, in Figure 1,
are shown the 14th, 18th, 23rd, 30th, and 41st sections respectively
from the oral end. Photomicrographs of sections 15, 24, 30, and 46
are shown in Plates 1 and 2.
The oesophagus is irregularly circular in cross section (Fig. I, B)
and extends aborally in the axis of the larva. The fact that it appears
nearer to the dorsal side in the figure Is due to the section having been
cut somewhat obliquely. The larva has been cut so that the oesoph-
agus appears as a complete tube first in section 6, the ventral side
