NEW INDO-MALAYAN LABOULBENIALES. 33
producing antheridia; the cells of the lower decidedly larger than
those of the upper; the terminal pair closely associated to form an
evenly rounded termination, in the types without appendages of any
kind. Perithecia short and stout, pale straw-colored with a slight
smoky tinge; the stalk-cell short, broader distally, somewhat longer
than broad ; the body asymmetrical, one margin straight and ending
in a tooth-like, brown, erect and slightly cur^■ed appendage at the tip;
the other slightly and broadly convex, and abruptly indented below
the small hyaline broadly rounded apex formed by the other lip-cells,
which are slightly exceeded by the tooth-like appendage. Perithecia
125-134 X 40 IX, "the stalk-cell 40-45 m- The tooth-like process IS X
10 fx at base. Antheridia 65 X 24 ix. Primary appendage 24 X 12 ix.
Receptacle, exclusi^■e of foot, about 24 n. Total length to tip of peri-
thecium 215 ix, including foot.
On the tip of al^domen of Homalota nigrcsccns Fauv. Samarang,
Java.
But three specimens of this small species have been examined, one
of which is immature, while the others are well developed and in good
condition. Each bears a single perithecium only, but it is probable
that more may be formed. The form is clearly distinguished from
all others known by the tooth-like appendage at the tip of its perithe-
cium. It is possible that the antheridia may in some cases be appen-
diculate, but there is no indication in the types that such is the case.
Herpomyces Panesthiae nov. sp.
Male indicidual. Receptacle consisting of four superposed cells, the
basal much larger and longer and distally inflated; the rest subequal;
all, or only the two terminal ones bearing antheridia directly, or single
cells from which antheridia arise distally: the antheridia twelve or
more, of the usual type ; the group broad below, the necks more or less
appressed. Receptacle SO /x, its basal cell 40 X 20 fx. Antheridia
60 fx. Total length to tip of antheridia about 150 /x.
FcmaJc indiindual. Hyaline. Primary receptacle minute, the basal
cell more elongate, narrow below, the rest subequal, the terminal one
nearly circular in outline, except its base, and terminated by a bhuit
apiculus; the subbasal cell gi^'ing rise to two secondary receptacles
each of which produces a single perithecium on either side of the pri-
mary receptacle. Secondary receptacle rather strongly curved, distally
broader, the cells vertically elongated, one of them, the largest, extend-
