DEVELOPMENT OF AGARICIA. 503
smaller than the filaments of mesenteries I and II. The filament
on the left of the larva (right in the sections) extends to about section
73 (Fig. 4, E), that on the right of the larva to about section 77, the
limits not being sharply defined.
The filaments of mesenteries /// differ histologically from those of
I and //. The ciliated cells are shorter and thicker and gland cells
seem to be absent, resembling in this the endoderm cells, from which
the filament is not always sharply to be distinguished.
A table is given showing the extent of the six primary mesenteries
in this larva.
Number of mesentery
I
11
in
IV
V
VI
Right side of larva
Oral end section No.
9
12
9
15
13
23
Aboral end section No.
11.5
112
102
104
112
102
Left side of larva
Oral end section No.
12
1.5
11
15
21
26
Aboral end section No. 11.5 112 102 104 112 102
Only mesenteries I to IV are complete.
This table shows that all of the mesenteries extend practically the
whole length of the larva. The third and fourth mesenteries are,
however, considering their early appearance in development, some-
what shorter than the others. The mesoglea of the mesenteries is very
thin and in many cases can be seen only where it is cut obliquely.
That it is somewhat tough and rigid, at least in fixed and stained
preparations, is shown by its being slightly displaced in sections,
leaving the less resistant entoderm cells behind it.
The gastrovascular cavity is clearly in the process of being divided
into compartments corresponding to the mesenteries. It will be
noticed in Figure 4, E and F, that a cleft in the entoderm occurs on
either side of each mesentery and that entoderm bulges inward be-
tween the mesenteries and between these clefts. This would seem to
indicate that the formation of the compartments is brought about
by the formation of the mesenteries. There is evidence in the histol-
ogy of the entoderm that the clefts referred to are formed by the
separation and breaking down of cells rather than by a process of
infolding. This would tend to support the theory that the clefts
are due to the closer adherence of the contiguous entoderm cells to
the more rigid mesoglea of the mesenteries.
