504 MAVOR.
c. Conclusions as to the Course of Development of the Mesenteries,
Mesenterial Filaments and the Gastrovascular Cavity.
If the assumption be made that the mesenteries develop in the
order of their size, the order of their development in the larva of
Agaricia fragilis is indicated by the numbers given the mesenteries
(Fig. 2, E), with the exception, that numbers V and VI develop
simultaneously. So far as the first four pairs of mesenteries are con-
cerned the order of development is that found by Faurot ('95) in
Adamsia palliata and HalcamjM chrysanthellum; by Wilson ('88) in
Manicina arcolata; by McMurrich ('91) in Rhodactis sancti-thomae
and Aulactinia and by Duerden (:04) in Siderastrea radians.
The writer believes that the larvae studied show that in the develop-
ment of the six pairs of primary mesenteries there may be recognized
three periods as follows: first, a period in which there are two pairs
(/ and //), a condition not represented by any of the larvae, but shown
probably to exist by the great development of pairs / and // and the
only slight indication of pairs /// and IV in larva A; second, a
period in which there are four pairs, represented in an early stage by
larva A, and shown probably to exist by the large size of pairs III and
IV and the small size of pairs V and VI in larvae B and C; third, a
period in which there are six pairs of mesenteries represented by larvae
B to I. By dividing the development of the mesenteries into these
periods the writer does not wish to deny the appearance of the pairs
of mesenteries in succession, but merely to show their association
into three sets of two pairs each. Further, it is to be noticed that
this association in sets of two pairs becomes more intimate as develop-
ment proceeds. In larva A pair I shows a very considerable advance
over pair // and this difference persists to some extent in the older
larvae. In the same larva pair III shows only a slight advance over
pair IV and in the older larvae such a difference between pairs ///
and IV is hardly to be seen. In larvae B to I pairs T" and VI seem to
have appeared and developed simultaneously.
If this interpretation is correct, the ventro-dorsal order of develop-
ment which is evident in the first two pairs, becomes less marked in
the next two pairs (/// and IV) and has entirely disappeared in the
last two pairs (F and VI). In other words the bilateral symmetry-
of the larval mesenteries has begun to give way to a radial symmetry
while it is still free swimming.
Evidence of close association in development between the first
two pairs of mesenteries is seen also in the development of their
