508 MAYOR.
Both photograph and drawing show two pairs of very small exo-
septa. Owing to ignorance as to which of the median septa is dorsal,
it is not possible to say whether the upper pair is the dorso-lateral or
ventro-lateral pair. The photographs and drawing have been ori-
ented, however, to correspond with the arrangement found by Duer-
den (:04) in Siderastrea radians, where the dorsal septa are the first
to develop.
b. Description of Skeleton B.
In this skeleton a distinct epitheca surrounds the basal plate.
The entosepta are relatively larger than those of skeleton A.
There is the same bilateral symmetry with regard to the angles
which the lateral septa make with the median plane. The lateral
septa, however, in this case are slightly concave on the lower side.
Exosepta and columella are absent.
c. Conclusions on the Early Development of the Skeleton.
The early skeletons obtained show great variation in size and in
the development of the septa. In some cases only five septa are
developed, in others one or more septa are defective. This variation
may be due to the fixation of the larvae at an earlier period in their
development than is usual; the skeletons showing most variation are
the smaller ones.
The following conclusions may however be drawn. The basal
plate and the six primary entosepta are the first structures to be
developed. The primary exosepta do not arise simultaneously. Bi-
lateral symmetry is frequently shown in the arrangement of the
primary entosepta.
Four possible explanations of this bilateral symmetry occur to the
writer. (1) The polyps which formed these skeletons may have fixed
themselves with the dorsal or possibly ventral side bent over toward
the substratum. (2) One or more of the median entocoels may have
been enlarged by the growth of the wall of the polyp in that region.
(3) It may represent a persistence of the bilateral symmetry seen in
the development of the mesenteries. (4) It may represent the
tendency of the coral to grow upward at one point to form the frond-
like corallum of the older coral.
