34 THAXTER.
ing from the base to the lower basal cell of the perithecium, which is
also subtended by a short cell, below which a third cell extends down
to the substratum and from which three or four distally pointed suc-
cessively shorter cells are separated laterally, externally, and somewhat
obliquely, all of them extending to the substratum. The lowest basal
cell of the perithecium associated with a general constriction which
it wholly occupies, flattened and connected by a more or less narrow
isthmus with a broader portion which lies immediately below the ascig-
erous cavity and forms, together with the three remaining basal cells
which are more or less rounded and sul)equal, a short nearly symmetri-
cal rather al^ruptly inflated base, broader than that of the ascigerous
venter; the latter is relatively rather short, slightly inflated, the junc-
tions of the wall-cells barely indicated, the outline subeven, the struc-
ture of the distal portion similar in general to that of H. tricusindatus;
the third wall-cell of the anterior row slightly concave, not at all
prominent, its margin continuous with that of the cell below, subtend-
ing an erect incurved spinous process, a similar process arising from the
fourth wall cell of one of the lateral rows, these two processes extending
distinctly beyond the erect spine which subtends the blunt short in-
curved tip of the perithecium. Perithecium, from basal cells to tip of
upper spine, about 92 ju; to tip of lower spines about 102 ^t, greatest
width 30 /x. Primary receptacle 26 X 7/^; secondary receptacle about
60 X 28 IX. Total length to tip of longest spine 180 ^i.
On the antennae of Pancstkia lobipennis Brunn. Near Peradeniya,
Ceylon.
This species occurs rarely on the above mentioned host, usually
singly, and always produces a single pair of perithecia only. It differs
in this respect from H. Paranensis and H. fricuspidafus to which it is
nearly allied, as well as in minor details of its secondary receptacle
and perithecium. The secondary receptacle is considerably twisted,
so that it is almost impossible to see its broad face, as in the two species
just mentioned.
Synandromyces Javanus nov. sp.
Pale straw-yellow throughout. Basal cell of the receptacle erect,
narrow, almost completely surrounded by the subbasal cell and the
stalk-cell of the appendage, which are nearly ecjual and lie almost
symmetrically on either side of it, extending nearly to its base, meeting
for a short distance above it. Body of the antheridiiun consisting of
