NEW INDO-MALAYAN LABOULBENIALES. 35
two superposed pairs of rounded cells separated by indentations;
the upper smaller, each bearing a single antheridium distally. Stalk-
cell of the perithecium short and very slender, the very broad base of
the perithecium arising from it laterally and asymmetrically, the body
short and stout, much inflated, asymmetrical when viewed sidewise,
tapering abruptly distally; the tip itself not well distinguished, broad;
the apex rounded, slightly sulcate. Perithecium 120-135 X 40-50 fx.
Receptacle, including stalk-cell, of appendage, 40 X 32 /x, free portion
of antheridial appendage, to tips of antheridial cells, 35^0 X 22-25 (jl.
Total length to tip of perithecium 155-175 /x.
At the base of the posterior legs of a cryptophagid beetle, belonging
to the section Telmatophilini. No. 2147, Samarang, Java.
This species differs from others known to me in having only two
antheridia. A second and very distinct species was found on the
same host, having a much reduced appendage and a much longer
black perithecial stalk-cell. The single specimen, however, is too
broken for description.
Arthrorhynchus Nycteribeae (Peyr).
Specimens of Pcnicillidia Jenynsi Wstw. collected at Peradeniya,
Ceylon, and infested by this species have been very kindly communi-
cated to me by Dr. Hugh Scott. The individuals appear to corre-
spond in all essential respects to European material and differ only in
their somewhat larger size, some of them having a total length of
about a millimeter, and paler color.
Stigmatomyces Stilici nov. sp.
Basal cell of the receptacle about twice as long as the subbasal,
narrower below and more or less deeply suffused with blackish brown;
distally hyaline and broader than the base of the subbasal cell from
which it is thus abruptly distinguished; subbasal cell faintly suffused
with yellowish brown, about as broad as long, its basal portion thin-
walled and distinctly differentiated, five sided, distally pointed and
obliquely separated from the stalk-cell of the appendage on one side
and that of the perithecium on the other. Stalk-cell of the appendage
subtriangular, externally convex, the basal septum oblique and practi-
cally continuous with the short inner margin, which is in contact with
