COMPOSITAE NEW AND TRANSFERRED. 521
persistent squamellae united into a low denticulate crown, from the
latter in habit and achenial characters, as also in range, the species of
Helianthella being West American and Mexican, of Phochanthus
Floridan. The species of Helianthella, which after the exclusion of
Enceliopsis and Pseudo-hcliantlms of the Synoptical Flora are restricted
to the subgenus " HcUantheUa proper" of that work, are perennial
herbs with rather few lanceolate to oblong-lanceolate usualh^ ample
leaves, alternate or opposite, of which the basal are generally much
larger, phyllaries for the most part herbaceous or often enlarged and
foliaceous, and achenes very strongly flattened (as in Encelia), on the
margin villous or glabrate, with 2 longer or shorter awns and a corona
of thin squamellae of varying length, united below or distinct to the
base. .
Although the genus Helianthella on its first publication (Torr. &
Gray, 1. c.) was divided into two groups, of which the first (§1, without
name) contained only the two species here referred to Phocbanthns,
while the second had three species {H. Dotiglasii, H. lanceolata, and
H. uniflora) all still retained in Helianthella, I have not thought it
advisable to consider the H. grandi flora group as typical, on the ground
of priority of position, and to create a new name for the second group,
l)oth because a considerably greater number of name changes would be
involved and because the H. Douglasii group was considered by Gray
himself (see Proc. Am. Acad. xix. 9 (1883) ; Syn. Fl. i. pt. 2. 284 (1884))
as typical of the genus.
Pionocarpus Blake, n. genus Helianth.-Verhesin. — Capitula hetero-
gama radiata, floribus radii 1-seriatis neutralibus disci hermaphro-
ditis fertilibus. Involucrum hemisphaericum, bracteis 2-seriatis
(exterioribus paullulo brevioribus) anguste ovato-lanceolatis acumi-
natis herbaceis subcostatis plus minusve piloso-hispido-ciliatis. Re-
ceptaculum convexum, paleis complicatis acuminatis flores disci am-
plectentibus onustum. Corollae radii ligulatae patentes oblongae;
disci regulares, tubo brevissimo faucibus cylindraceis limbo 5-dentato.
Antherae basi cordato-sagittatae apice appendice ovata obtusa prae-
ditae. Styli rami lineares hirti appendice lineari-lanceolata longa
hirtella praediti. Achaenia radii inania; disci oblonga pubescentia
apice truncata valde incrassata paullum a latere compressa immargi-
nata. Pappus persistens ex aristis 2 subaequalibus subtenuibus et
squamellis ca. 10 multo minoribus laceratis basi ima unitis interdum
una duabusve elongatis compositus. — Herba perennis subscaposa e
radice verticali crassa tuberiformi. Caulis parcissime ramosus ca.
4-cephalus. Folia maxima ex parte radicalia lineari-lanceolata
