36 THAXTER.
the base of the perithecial stalk-cell; basal cell somewhat darker,
separated by a slight constriction, distally slightly protruding between
an inner and an outer larger cell, each bearing two antheridia; the
outer externally convex, and followed by a similar external cell, also
bearing two antheridia, while above it three antheridia follow in a
vertical series, the uppermost subtended by the usual spinous process;
all the antheridia relatively long, with long appressed necks directed
obliquely upward in a coherent group. Stalk-cell of the perithecium
well developed, hyaline, broader distally, its distal septum horizontal
below the flattened group of basal cells; the body of the perithecium
becoming more or less well distinguished into a broader somewhat
inflated venter, a neck-portion subtendetl l)y a slight elevation, and a
somewhat shorter tip; the whole usually straight, tapering gradually,
and ending in a bluntly rounded apex subtended on either side by
minute papillae. Perithecia 125-195 X 30-40 ix stalk-cell 40-60 X
20-23 ju. Appendage proper, to tip of antheridia, 45-50 /x; its stalk-
cell 15-20 /x. Total length to tip of perithecium 200-310 /i. Spores
about 35 X 4 ju.
On the abdomen and elytra of Stilicus Ceylonensis Kr., No. 2098,
Peradeniya, Ceylon; No. 1826 (Types) Borneo.
This species belongs to the type separated under the name Zcugan-
dromyccs in my paper on Argentine Laboulbeniales. A comparison of
abundant material in good condition leads me to believe, however,
that the latter name should not be retained, and the Argentine species
on Scopacus lacvis should be changed to Stigmatomyces australis
nov. comb.
Cryptandromyces Javanus nov. sp.
Hyaline. Basal and subbasal cell of the receptacle somewhat
obliquely and asymmetrically associated, subequal, nearly twice as
long as broad. Stalk-cell of the appendage lying parallel to and closely
united with the subbasal cell of the receptacle, the distal end of which
is also in contact with it; the basal and subbasal cells of the appendage
subequal; or the former larger, bearing distally two erect series of
three or four antheridial cells separated by slightly oblique septa,
at first somewhat coherent and evanescent after separation. Stalk-
cell of the perithecium terminal in relation to the subbasal cell of the
receptacle, its base of the same width anrl somewhat compressed or
irregular, its distal end broader and obliquely related to the outer
basal cell of the perithecium above, the basal cells of which are well
