530 EOBINSON.
Nicolson referred is clearly shown by the expression "sub Jalapiae
nomine." Of this plant Plukenet gives a figure cited by Ray and
doubtless in the opinion of Ray representing his plant. This figure
shows a highly conventionalized twiner with alternate deltoid-ovate
entire leaves and solitary short-peduncled axillary flowers. The flow-
ers show no corolla but merely ^a smallcalyx with relatively short lobes
which do not equal the tube. It is impossible to regard this figure
as representing /. cathartico, Poir. which is characterized by calyx-
lobes of unusual length, greatly exceeding the short tube. The
writer after some search has failed to find that Linnaeus expressed
any opinion in regard to the identity of this particular figure of
Plukenet, and from its general lack of detail it would probably be
impossible to place it with any certainty.
It may be seen from the data here assembled 1) that Nicolson made
no Convolvulus africanus, a name which seems to have arisen from a
clerical error of Choisy. 2) that Nicolson in employing the name
Convolvulus americanus had no thought of coining a new designation
or describing a new species, but was merely applying — in all proba-
bility erroneously — the pre-Linnaean Convolvulus Americanus of
Ray to a purgative twiner of Santo Domingo. He gives no botanical
characterization sufficient to give validity to the name and merely
discusses briefly the pharmaceutical properties. Nicolson's type is
not known and even if the plant he was treating could be ascertained
it is doubtful if the botanical type of Convolvulus americanus would
not have to be sought in the plant of Ray, whose name Nicolson was
intending to apply, rather than the plant to which he perhaps mis-
takenly applied it. As we have seen, the plant of Ray may be traced
back to a figure of Plukenet's which cannot be I. cathartica Poir.,
a well known name that thus relieved of an earlier synonym retains
its validity.
Ipomoea crassicaulis (Benth.), comb. nov. Batatas ? crassi-
caulis Benth. Voy. Sulph. 134 (1844). Ipomoea fistulosa Mart, ex
Choisy in DC. Prod. ix. 349 (1845). /. tcxana Coult. Contrib. U. S.
Nat. Herb. i. 45 (1890).
Operculina ornithopoda (Robinson) House, var. megacarpa
(Brandegee), comb. nov. Ipomoea sp. Rose, Contrib. U. S. Nat.
Herb. i. 344 (1895). /. megacarpa Brandegee, Zoe, v. 218 (1905).
Operculina Roseana House, Bull. Torr. Bot. Club, xxxiii. 500 (1906) ;
Bot. Gaz. xliii. 414 (1907). Formae typicae floribus fructu etc. simil-
lima differt foliorum segmentis multo latioribus(0.9-3.5 cm. latitudine).
The writer agrees with Mr. House that this plant, differing in range
