538 ROBINSON,
largish heads with narrow unequal acute involucral scales passing
inward into narrow somewhat readily deciduous paleae. The achenes
are 4-5-angled as described by DeCandoUe and the species is there-
fore referable to Eupatorium rather than to Brickellia. With Car-
phephorvs, notwithstanding the presence of a few paleae on the outer
part of the disk, the species appears to have no close affinity. The
older specific name {triangularis) having been already several times
employed for other species of Eupatorium, cannot be here revived.
The only difference noted between the type of E. vitifolium and that
of Bulbostylis triangularis is that in the single leaf of the latter, still
preserved in the DeCandoUean herbarium, the base is essentially
truncate, while in the Liebmann plant, upon which Klatt's species
was founded, the leaf-base, though in the main outline truncate, is
slightly cordate at the insertion of the petiole. In consideration of
the close correspondence in all other features observed, this one slight
difference is believed to be merely individual. At all events, until
the plants can be examined in more complete specimens even a varietal
separation seems unwise.
Brickellia cymulifera, spec, nov., subherbacea 3-4 dm. alta:
caulibus gracilibus teretibus foliosis plus minusve decumbentibus
crispe puberulis, internodiis 3-8 cm. longis; foliis oppositis graciliter
petiolatis hastato-deltoideis caudato-acuminatis grosse dentatis basi
cordatis utrinque viridibus sparse crispeque puberulis, laminis 3-5.4
cm. longis 2.5-3.8 cm. latis, petiolo 1-4 cm. longo; cymis oppositis
laxe patentibus 3-5-capitulatis in axillis a parte media caulis (vel
etiam a parte inferiori) usque ad apicem orientibus, pedunculis sub-
filiformibus crispe puberulis 2-3.5 cm. longis in media parte bracteas
binas foliaceas ovatas acuminatas integras gerentibus et ad apicem
V)racteolis binis parvis linearibus munitis; pedicellis filiformibus crispe
puberulis saepe bracteolatis 4-15 mm. longis; capitulis (valde imma-
turis) ca. 12-floris 6 mm. altis et diametro; involucri turbinato-
campanulati squamis ca. 17 convexis viridibus vel atro-purpureis
tenuiter striatis ciliolatis apice rotundatis, extimis dorso puberulis
orbiculatis, intermediis ovato vel obovato-oblongis dorso subglabris,
intimis oblanceolato-oblongis; corollis (immaturis) cylindricis sparse
granulatis 5-dentatis; achaeniis (immaturis) obconicis tomentellis;
pappi setis 40-50 valde inaequalibus barbellatis albis. — Mexico:
Minas de San Rafael, San Luis Potosi, November, 1910, Dr. C. A.
Purpus, no. 4802 (type, in Gray Herb.,'' the same number also ex-
amined in herb. Mo. Bot. Gard.).
CoNYZA soPHiAEFOLiA HBK, Nov. Gen. et Spec. iv. 72, t. 326
