NEW INDO-MALAYAN LABOULBENIALES. 37
developed and clearly defined; the region somewhat narrower than
the base of the venter from which it is well distinguished ; the body of
the perithecium rather short and stout, slightly and subsymmetrically
inflated; the tip hardly distinguished, short, blunt-pointed, slightly
asymmetrical. Perithecia 60-70 X 23-25 m, the stalk 20^0 n.
Appendage including stalk-cell 30-38 /x. x\ntheridial series about
28 /i. Receptacle 35-40 ii. Total length to tip of perithecium 100-
120 m-
On a small mahogany brown scydmaenid, No. 1419: Java (Rouyer).
The antheridia in this species are somewhat more persistent than
in the type, although they seem to disappear as soon as they have
functioned. In the present instance two groups are present in at
least one of the specimens, which seem to be coherent and when sepa-
rated each series closely resembles the antheridial branchlet of the
Rhadiuomyccs-type of the genus Corethroinyccs; although it seems
doubtful that there is any close relationship between the two. The
eflPerent necks are short or obsolete.
Cryptandromyces subgaleatus nov. sp.
Hyaline. Basal and subbasal cells not differing greatly in size,
somewhat variably related, the latter united to the stalk-cell of the
appendage, which is similar. Appendage consisting of a rather long
and slender axis curved toward the perithecium, near the base of which
may arise an antheridial branchlet of three seriate antheridial cells;
a similar branchlet sometimes terminating the main axis, or arising
from the stalk-cell of the appendage. Stalk-cell of the appendage
relatively long and slender, al)ruptly distinguished from the base of
the perithecium, the cells of which are clearly defined and subequal;
the region abruptly broader than the stalk-cell, and somewhat nar-
rower than the venter above; which is slightly inflated, and tapers
distally to the relatively very broad tip, which is of about the same
diameter throughout; the apex slightly broader and subgaleate,
slightly oblique inwardly, with a small projection. Perithecium 86 X
20 Mj including basal cell region (10 /x), the stalk-cell 25 X 8 m- Ap-
pendage to 215 X 8 M, the antheridial branchlet 30 /x. Receptacle
about 20 X 10 /x- Total length to tip of perithecium 125 /x.
On the elytra of a small beetle near Scydmacnus. No. 2145,
Samarang, Java.
Only one of the four si^ecimens examined is mature enough to have
