CERATOMYXA ACADIENSIS.
567
on either side are very long and thin. Their exact
length in the spore of the parasite from Urophycis
chuss was not measured. Their extreme fineness
and great length make this very difficult, except in
very favorable preparations. They were measured
in the case of the parasite of Zoarces angularis
(Fig. B), where they were found to be 300 ju in
length, and in the case of the parasite of P. ameri-
canus, where they measured about 250 /z in length,
or from five to six times the width of the spore,
exclusive of the filaments. In Plate III, Figure 51,
is shown a myxosporidium in which two spores
have developed side by side in the relative positions
described in a previous section. The protoplasm
of the myxosporidium extends out along the lateral
filaments of the spores. The lateral filaments were
not seen at any time wound around the developing
spores as described by Doflein ('98) for the spores
of Ceratomyxa linospora. The cavity of the valves
does not appear to be continued into the filaments.
The length of these filaments is greater, both rela-
tively to the width of the spore exclusive of them,
and absolutely, than the length recorded for the lat-
eral filaments of any other species of Ceratomyxa.
The longest lateral filaments hitherto described are
those of C. linospora Doflein, which are 20 ^t in
length, or twice the width of the spore excluding
filaments. In their length these lateral filaments
may be compared with the long posterior filaments
found by Nemeczek (:11) attached to the spores of
Henneguya gigantea Nemeczek, which attain a
length of 77-100 /x, or about nine times the length
of the spore. Long filaments are most common in
the two genera Ceratomyxa and Henneguya.
It is generally believed that the filamentous
appendages of myxosporidian spores aid the
Figure B. Ceratomyxa acadiensis, n. sp., spores
drawn with the Abbe camera lucida from fresh prepara-
tions; a., from the gall bladder of Zoarces angularis
showing lateral filaments, lower filament full length,
upper one cut off; h., from the gall bladder of TToph>cis
chuss showing polar filaments extruded. X 270 diameters.
