568 MAYOR.
distribution of the spores, both by retarding the rate at which they
sink and by rendering them more easily carried by currents.
The polar capsules are almost spherical and lie close together at
the anterior end of the spore. They are so oriented that the polar
filaments when extruded cross each other (Fig. B, b). The extrusion
of the polar filaments was effected by the action of concentrated sul-
phuric acid, and by a solution of iodine in potassic iodide, but they
were not extruded by ammonia-water. The failure of the latter
reagent may have been due to the spores not having been ripe. When
extruded the filaments appear as very fine threads of uniform thick-
ness.
The sporoplasm as seen in fixed and stained preparations is eccen-
trically placed (being nearly all in one valve), and contains, in all the
spores studied from the gall bladder, two compact darkly staining
nuclei (PI. II, Fig. 40). The dimensions of the spores are given under
the diagnosis of the species.
3. Abnormalities in the Structure and Development of Spores.
Triradiate spores of C. acadiensis were of frequent occurrence
in all tliree hosts of the parasite. These spores may show a fairly
regular radial symmetry, both as regards the valves and the polar
capsules (Fig. C, a), or one of the valves may be smaller than the other
two, while the three polar capsules are of equal size and symmetrically
arranged (Fig. C, b).
Cases where a triradiate spore and a normal spore were developing
in the same myxosporidium were found (Fig. C, c), also cases where
two triradiate spores were developing together in one myxosporidium.
The possession of a triradiate spore-shell formed from three cells
is characteristic of the group Actinomyxidae. The frequent occur-
rence of triradiate spores, whose shell is presumably formed by three
cells (since in many cases three polar-capsule nuclei can be seen),
is interesting as indicating a possible relationship between these two
groups.
