38 THAXTER.
profhiced spores. The species seems well distinguished by its broad
siibgaleate apex, slender and well developed perithecial stalk-cell,
and its long appendage.
Corethromyces Medonis nov. sp.
Receptacle geniculate between the basal and subbasal cells, the
former squarish or slightly broader than long, quite hyaline; the latter
opaque, broader distally, sometimes twice as long as broad, indistin-
guishable from the main appendage with which it is continuous. The
primary appendage hyaline along the inner margin, otherwise nearly
opaque, the subdistal and much smaller distal cells giving rise to a
group of hyaline branches which are rather short, once or twice
branched, directed inward; some of the branchlets consisting of
seriate antheridia of the normal type. Perithecium hyaline, becom-
ing yellowish; the hyaline stalk-cell well developed, narrower below,
the outline from its base to the apex of the perithecium almost sym-
metrically fusiform; body of the perithecium slightly inflated, the
outline of the margins somewhat undulate; the tip not distinguished,
often slightly bent outward, the apex bluntly rounded. Perithecium
78-100 X 20-28 m; the stalk-cell 20-39 X 12-16 /x. Primary appen-
dage 27-31 X 9 /x, its longest branches 50 /x. Total length to tip of
perithecium 125-175 /x.
On the inferior abdomen of Mcdo7i curtus}\.r.; No. 2074, Samararig,
Java. On Mcdon Binnanus Fauv., No. 2368, Borneo.
A small species more nearly allied to C. purpurasccns than to other
described species, and belonging to the Cryptohium-mhdihitmg group.
Corethromyces decipiens nov. sp.
Receptacle becoming almost wholly opaque, a small hyaline point
just above the foot, the basal cell small, geniculate, prolonged poste-
riorly and distally to form an opaque, free, somewhat divergent,
spur-like upgrowth, spoon-shaped or of nearly equal diameter through-
out, blunt-tipped; its base united throughout to the long flat distally
hyaline otherwise deeply suffused subbasal cell; its remaining free
portion lying beside the hyaline appendage, the branches of which
reach some distance beyond its extremity. Appendage arising in the
angle between the base of the perithecium and the black spur-like
