NEW INDO-MALAYAN LABOULBENIALES. 41
rounded. Perithecium 66 X 16 y., the stalk-cell 40^5 X 13 m- Pri-
mary appendage 25 /z; the longer branches 250-275 m- Receptacle
about 28 fx, the free part of its prolongation 24 X 4 /i. Total length
to tip of perithecium 135-145 ji.
On the abdomen and prothorax of Stilicus Ceylonensis Kr. Buiten-
zorg, Thompson (Type) No. 2488; No. 2077, Samarang.
Allied to C. Stilici and differing especially in its appendage and re-
ceptacle.
Corethromyces appendiculatus nov. sp.
Receptacle consisting of two very small cells, the basal hyaline, or
but slightly suffused, the subbasal more or less deeply involved by a
suffusion which is continuous with that of the main axis of the append-
age. The latter dark blackish olivaceous, deeper externally, the dark
septa clearly visible, the cells four or five in number, the three lower
larger, the basal closely united to the stalk-cell of the perithecium,
the subbasal often strongly convex, the distal bearing a terminal and
one or two subterminal branches, the latter from the inner side; the
branches sometimes sparingly branched, short, hyaline, except the
basal cells of the terminal one which is a continuation of the main axis.
Perithecia relatively short and stout, the stalk-cell but slightly larger
than the basal cell of the appendage, to which it is almost wholly
united; often separated from the perithecium which may diverge
from it at an angle, crossing the axis of the appendage, by a distinct
external constriction; the basal cell-region hyaline, not distinguished
from the portion above it which becomes gradually broader and more
deeply suffused with olive brown from below upward; the middle
third broadest, the outer margin rather strongly convex; the tip short
and broad, not at all distinguished, its inner margin deeply suffused,
the suffusion extending upward into a rather slender curved appendage
formed from an outgrowth of one of the lip-cells; another of the lip-
cells prolonged to form a suffused projection about half as long,
straight, with broad base and rounded tip, the other two lip-cells
ending in dissimilar, small and unequal, asymmetrically placed
hyaline protrusions. Perithecia 50-60 X 16 yu; the stalk-cell 8-10 X
5 ijl; the free part of the longest terminal appendage about 6 X 2 /x.
Appendage, main axis 28-45 X 7 /.i, the hyaline branches about 28 /i.
Total length to tip of perithecium 70-85 /x. Receptacle 10 X 5 /U-
On the elytra of a silphid l)eetle near Anaspis. No. 2079, Samarang,
Java.
