582
BRIDGMAN.
The data are presented in the order of compHcation of the phase
diagrams, and inehide the coordinates of the transition curves, the
change of volume, latent heat and internal energy, and in those cases
where the measurements were sufficiently accurate, an estimate of
the difference of compressibility, thermal expansion, and specific
heat of the different modifications. In the discussion of the relations
of the various forms it will appear that the three simplest nitrates,
those of Rubidium, Caesium, and Thallium, are much alike in their
behavior under pressure; the nitrates of Ammonium and Potassium
are much less simple in their relations, and Silver Nitrate is appar-
ently not connected with these at all.
Detailed Data.
Silver Nitrate. — Two batches of this substance were used.
The first was from Eimer and Amend, c. p., and was used both for
the run at atmospheric pressure and for the runs over the entire high
pressure range. For the determinations at high pressures it was
hammered dry into an open steel shell. The high pressure points
were found in the order of decreasing pressure and increasing tempera-
ture. For the measurement at low pressure, the AgNOs was fused
into a glass tube, in which it remained. The second batch was from
the J. T. Baker Chemical Co., "analyzed chemicals," and showed
by analysis less than 0.002% of impurity. This was fused into glass
moulds, from which it was removed for the measurements. The
moulds were of such a size that the sticks of AgNOs fitted loosely
the inside of the pressure cylinder. In all cases, pressure was trans-
mitted directly to the AgNOs by kerosene. With this second batch,
five of the high pressure points were repeated, between 6000 and 12000
kgm., six months after the original determinations. Every part of
the apparatus was different from the original, which had been de-
stroyed piece by piece in the meantime by various explosions. The
agreement of the p-t values of these two determinations is good.
This repetition was made necessary because of an accidental distribu-
tion of error in the two lowest Av points of the original measurements,
such that there appeared to be a discontinuity in the A^ curve, so that
there was consequently a possibility that another modification might
exist.
No perceptible decomposition of the AgNOs could be detected
where it came in contact with the steel, although such might be
