42 THAXTER.
This peculiar species is most nearly ailed to C. obtutms which it
resembles in general habit and coloring. It is clearly distinguished
by the peculiar conformation at the apex of its peritheciura.
Stichomyces Pterogenii nov. sp.
Foot relatively large; receptacle sulKlecvunbent, broadest at the
base when seen sidewise; colorless or faintly yellowish, continuous
with the primary appendage from which it is in no way distinguished,
the whole consisting of about six superposed cells; the four lower
somewhat larger, rather irregular in size, somewhat broader than
long; the second, third and fourth giving rise laterally either to single
perithecia, or to single short branches; the subbasal cell more often
producing a short antheridial branch, and the cell above it an up-
curved perithecium; the terminal cells of the axis giving rise on one
or both sides to rather slender, elongate, tapering branches, which are
simple or once l)ranched near the base, turned upward parallel to the
perithecium. Perithecium rather slender and long, borne laterally
on a short stalk-cell which is bent abruptly upward; the venter
somewhat broader, tapering slightly to the hardly differentiated tip,
which is short, often slightly bent, tapering to a blunt point. Peri-
thecia 40-50 X 9-12 jjL. Spores 18-20 X 2 /x in perithecium. Main
axis 30-35 X 10- 12 jj. at base. Longest branches 175 ijl.
On the elytra of Pterogenius Nietneri; No. 2109, Peradeniya, Ceylon.
This rather nondescript form is somewhat doubtfully referred ta
the genus SticJiomyccs, of which it may be an aberrant and reduced
type. The tendency to produce branches and perithecia on either
side of the main axis, and the common occurrence of a branch below
the perithecium from the subbasal cell would make it difficult to in-
clude it in Corethromyces which it resembles in some respects, nor does
it seem possible to include it in the genus Chactomyces, although the
position of this last genus is somewhat uncertain. The perithecium,.
which is normally single, is more often produced by the third cell.
The axis lies nearly parallel to the surface of the host, and the peri-
thecium and long slender branches, at the bases of which short antheri-
dial branchlets may arise, are abruptly bent upward.
Stichomyces Cybocephali nov. sp.
Very constantly coherent in pairs; straight, nearly colorless, the
foot relatively very large, the axis consisting of from six to eight
