EFFECTS OF PRESSURE ON NITRATES. 591
of the acid; even heating to over 200° in vacuum for several hours
was not effective. The presence of free acid was shown by the corro-
sion of the steel shell and cylinder after the runs were finished. Cer-
tain very puzzling inconsistencies in the behavior under pressure are
probably to be explained by the presence of acid. Professor Richards
has therefore undertaken to prepare a second sample, this time
crystallized from neutral solution. In the preparation of this sample
several unexpected delays have arisen and the way does not yet seem
clear to a successful outcome. I have therefore thought it best to
publish tentatively the results already obtained, and to reserve for a
future note the data on the perfectly pure sample. None of the con-
clusions reached in this paper can be altered by a slight change in the
numerical values. My unwillingness to delay longer is because the
rest of the data of this paper have now been awaiting publication for
somewhat over a year, and a succeeding longer paper is entirely
finished, waiting only for the appearance of this paper.
Runs were made at three different times. The first gave five
points from 1000 to COOO kgm. These results were fairly regular;
the Av point at the lowest pressure was lower than was to be expected,
however. After two months the points at approximately atmospheric
pressure were determined. The equilibrium temperature was nearly
1° low, judged by extrapolation from the previous high pressure
points, and Av was 10% low. There was no possibility of accidental
experimental error; two independent determinations at 78 kgm.
gave very concordant results. Again after two months, four more
points were redetermined at high pressures. The Av points of this
run were very much lower than the previous points and more irregular;
the greatest discrepancy being 30% at 4000 kgm. The equililjrium
temperatures also did not agree, at 1000 kgm. being 0.4° low, and at
4000 kgm. 1.5° high. The transition line as redetermined w^ould,
therefore, extrapolate to a lower transition temperature at atmospheric
pressure. It seems probable that there was some slow permanent
change taking place in the RbNOa due to the free acid. In the
Figure and the Table, I have therefore given only the results of the
first run, which seem more likely to be accurate.
The equilibrium pressures and temperatures and the changes of
volume are shown in Figure 6, and the numerical values are collected
in Table IV. In view of the certainty of revision of these data, it
did not seem worth while to give a diagram as usual for AH and AE.
RbNOs is known to have another transition point at atmospheric
pressure,^ near 219°, so that there is another modification not shown
