600 BRIDGMAN.
values for the change of volume between I and III or between II and
III at low pressures. Three sets of measurements were made around
the triple point I-II-III. The first gave the change of volume I-II
by the method of changing temperature at constant pressure. The
temperature could be raised so far beyond the transition line that the
reaction from II to I was surely complete, and of course it was not
■difficult to be sure of starting with pure II at low temperature. But
this method does not give the temperature of the transition point,
and this transition temperature was especially needed in fixing the
position of the triple point. To fix this point, pressure and tempera-
ture values were obtained at low pressures on the I-III and the II-III
lines, by the method of varying pressure at constant temperature. It
was possible to shut the pressure within narrow limits, 20 to 30 kgm.,
but the domain of subcooling was so wide that the reaction was not
completed even on reducing pressure to nearly atmospheric. The
directly found values of AV at these points were 10 to 15% too low.
These points were, therefore, discarded. The AV curves for I-III
and II-III at low pressures were determined by extrapolation from
the high pressure values together with the condition that the changes
of volume should check with that for I-II at the triple point.
In spite of the comparatively large amount of lag, the width of
the band of indifference was not abnormal. No absolute value can
be attached to these figures, because of the disturbing effect of fissures.
The limits were notably wider on repeating a point, probal)ly because
of the fissures formed by the intervening transitions, and were very
much less in the low than in the high pressure apparatus. The figures
pretend only to give roughly a comparative estimate. The band was
widest for the II-IV curve, about 250 kgm.; on the II-III curve it
varied from 200 kgm. at the lowest to 100 kgm. at the highest tempera-
ture; on the I-III curve the variation with rising temperature was
from 100 to 30 kgm., and on the III-IV curve from 140 to kgm.
with rising pressure. On all the curves, the band becomes narrower
with rising temperature. The reaction, as usual, ran more rapidly
at the high temperatures, and at least on the II-III and III-IV curves
the transition ran more rapidly in the direction of falling pressure.
The experimental values of pressure and temperature are shown in
Figure 10, the experimental values of AV in Figure 11, the computed
values of AH and AE in Figure 12, and the numerical results in Table
VI. All of the pressure-temperature determinations are shown on
the curves, but four of the AV points have been discarded for reasons
already given.
