NEW INDO-MALAYAN LABOULBENIALES. ' 43
superposed cells, which are broader than long and rather irregular in
size; the two or three distal ones more often without branches.
Perithecia or appendages arising from the second, third or fourth cells,
laterally and sometimes from opposite sides even of the same cell.
The branches scanty, often lacking or only one or two, curved upward,
usually simple, few-celled, with a terminal antheridium. Perithecia
suberect, or sometimes curved outward, borne on a short stalk-cell,
concolorous, relatively long and slender, the body nearly symmetrical;
the tip not clearly distinguished, except by a minute external papilla,
short, tapering slightly to a blunt or truncate apex. Perithecium
30-35 X 7-8 n. Spores 25 X 2 /i. Axis 20-27 X 7 m- Branches
15-18 n. Foot 12 X 5.5 m-
On the elytra of Cyhocephalus sp. No. 2106, Peradeniya, Ceylon.
This form like the preceding species is provisionally referred to
Stichomyces, but is of uncertain position. What appear to be antheri-
dia have been seen in several specimens borne singly and terminally,
usually on the branch which subtends the perithecium.
Laboulbenia helicophora nov. sp.
Basal and subbasal cells of the receptacle uniform dirty yellow
brown, the subbasal somewhat longer and broader ; the distal portion
swollen and becoming deeply suffused with blackish in the region near
cell III which, like cell four, is relatively very broad, the two forming
a prominent bulging in this region. Insertion-cell immediately over
the septum between cells IV and V, separated from the perithecium
by a portion of the upper surface of the latter; the group of appendages
compact, more or less uniformly dull yellowish brown, the outer
usually' simple, rigid, slightly divergent, somewhat tapering, rather
short; the basal cell of the inner bearing once furcate branches on
either side similar to the outer appendage. Perithecium more than
half free, broader at the base, and bent toward the appendages; al-
though the inner margin is nearly straight up to the tip which, by a
sudden constriction abruptly distinguishes the peculiar lip-cells, the
inner of Avhich forms an appendage deeply blackened, except along its
inner side, which, projecting outward, curls upward and inward in a
short helix; the outer lip-cell also forming a conspicuous black,
slightly shorter, stouter appendage, its bluntly rounded tip slightly
upturned; the pore hyaline and associated with a small black process
from the base of the outer appendage, which curves over it. Perithe-
