EFFECTS OF PRESSURE ON NITRATES. 605
Several direct determinations of the difTerence of compressibility
were made, which were not, however, very accurate. At the triple
point I-II-III, there are no data for the computation, and at the
triple point II-III-IV the values are not accurate enough. This
much may, however, be stated with some confidence. Ill is more
compressible than I; the differe ice is of the order of O.O5I, and proba-
bly the diflference decreases with increasing pressure: III is also more
expansible than I, and the difference is of the order of O.O46. The
specific heat of I is less than that of III, the difference being about
1 kgm. cm. per gm. II is probably less compressible than III, and it is
probable that the difference of expansion between II and III changes
sign along the transition curve; at the higher temperature II is less
expansible, and at the lower temperatures more expansible. Ill is
more compressible than IV and the difference is of the order of O.O5I.
There is also a direct experimental determination of the difference of
specific heats of I and II by Bellati and Romanese,^° at 0.014 cal.,
but the authors themselves say that the difference of specific heat
cannot be expected to be accurate.
Search was made for other modifications to 12000 kgm. at 20° and
200°, but without success.
Ammonium Nitrate, The material used was Kahlbaum's purest,
"zur Analyse," obtained from Eimer and Amend. Two series of
runs were made, separated by an interval of a year. For each of
these series of runs the material was hammered dry into a perforated
steel shell, and the pressure transmitted directly to it by kerosene.
For the second run, the salt was subjected to a preliminary drying in
vacuum at 100°. No difference in behavior between the two runs to
be attributed to this cause was to be detected. The second series,
repeating the first, was made necessary by the fact that the measure-
ments of Av given by the first series were irregular. The reason for
this is that ammonium nitrate is a substance for which it is particu-
larly difficult to force the reaction from one phase to another to run
to completion. It is very curious that a reaction which will start
to run with only a little subcooling or superheating will run to
completion only with a much greater subcooling or superheating. I
have found this same behavior several times with other substances.
It has also been observed for ammonium nitrate by Behn; ^^ he found,
for example, that for the transition IV-V it was necessary to lower
the temperature fully 30° beyond the transition temperature before
12 U. Behn, Proc. Roy. Soc. 80, 444-457 (1907-08).
