44 THAXTEK.
cia 175 X 40-45 m; the two lip-appendages spreading 64 ^i. Ap-
pendages, maximum length, 150 /x. Receptacle 275-315 X 78-85 m-
Total length to tip of perithecium 390-425 /x.
At the base of the anterior legs of PericaUus sp., No. 1408, Java
(Rouyer).
A very striking species, most nearly allied to L. Javana, from which
it differs in the general form of its receptacle, which recalls that of
L. Texana, by its curled apical appendage, and much greater size,
as well as in other points.
Laboulbenia manubriolata nov. sp.
Variable, dirty straw-yellow throughout, or with brown shades; the
subbasal, or both the basal and subbasal cells becoming suffused with
blackish brown, in the type, and coarsely tuberculate. Basal portion
of the receptacle rather slender, curved, the curvature including
both the base of the subbasal cell and the whole basal cell, the latter
one half to one third as long as the former; cells III and VI usually
somewhat elongated, parallel, of about the same width; cell II longer,
usually slightly prominent distally, separated by a horizontal septum
from cell IV, which is often rather long and externally concave, bulging
slightly below the insertion-cell. Appendages hyaline or becoming
brownish, the basal cell of the outer relatively large and bearing a
distal outcurved prolongation, the rest of the appendage once or twice
branched; the branches somewhat tapering, rather slender, soon
broken; basal cell of the inner appendage smaller producing a short
branch on either side, usually furcate. Perithecium more than one
half to one third free, becoming tinged with brownish, rather long and
narrow, the tip relatively broad and slightly outcurved, blackened
below the hyaline pore. Perithecia 80-135 X 20-26 ijl. Appendages
unbroken, longest 150 pt.. Receptacle, to insertion-cell, 120-300 X
30^0 fjL. Total length to tip of perithecium 160-400 m-
On various parts of a small Carabid allied to Tachys. No. 2081d
(Type) on elytra, Samarang, Java. No. 2093, Peradeniya, Ceylon.
This species is most nearly allied to L. Tachyis, and L. maritima
and is distinguished by the handle-like protrusion of the basal cell of
the outer appendage. The species varies very greatly in size and color.
The form having the basal and subbasal cells blackened and coarsely
tuberculate, is taken as the type. The last mentioned character is
evidently not a result of age, since it appears in a few very young speci-
mens in which the perithecia have not begun to form.
