EFFECTS OF PRESSURE ON NITRATES. G15
be computed from the data of Bellati and Romanese appears to be
due to an error of Tammann's in converting Lussana's data, which
are given in atmospheres, to kilograms. Lussana himself states that
the agreement of his experimental values with the computed values
is almost perfect, and I have verified this, at least within one of
two percent. The apparent discrepancy between Tammann's and
Lussana's observations may furthermore be at least partly explained
by the difference in the pressure range, because of the fact that the
slope of the transition lines III-IV and III-II changes markedly with
pressure. The slope of the line II-III decreases algebraically, the
normal direction of variation, but the slope of the line III-IV increases
with rising pressure, a somewhat unusual effect. These two equili-
brium lines are so short that it would be a matter of considerable
experimental difficulty to accurately measure the variation of slope
with pressure. That there is a variation with pressure was first
suggested to me by an examination of my own equilibrium points.
Furthermore, on making the computations, it appeared that such a
variation was imperatively demanded by the conditions at the triple
point. With the help of the known relations at the triple point it
was possible to get a fairly good idea of what the actual variation of
slope must be. The values given in the Table were computed so as
to satisfy the conditions at the triple point, and with no other condi-
tions in mind. In fact, I did not know of the discrepancy between
the values of Lussana and Tammann until after I had made the
computations. All of the discrepancy between these observers
cannot be explained in this way, however. Lussana gives for the
slope of the transition III-IV over a range of 2.50 kgm. 0.0287, Tam-
mann giAcs over the range up to the triple point, that is up to 860 kgm.,
the average slope 0.0346. I find for the average slope up to the triple
point 0.0364, and for the average over the first 2.50 kgm. 0.0318. The
variation of slope with pressure is fairly large and will explain a large
part of the discrepancy between Tammann and Lussana, although it
will evidently not account for all of it. The agreement of Tammann's
and my results is better than that of Tammann and Lussana. It
must be said that Tammann did detect the curvature of the transition
lines, and states that the II-III curve is concave downwards and the
III-IV concave upwards, but he makes no allowance for this fact in
comparing his results with those of Lussana. In spite of the sur-
prisingly good agreement found by Lussana between his results and
those computed from the thermal data of Bellati and Romanese, this
agreement must be recognized as accidental, and not necessarily
