616 BRIDGMAN.
indicating the correctness of the data of either BeUati and Ronianese
or of Lussana. Lussana's method was not one adapted to give
accurate results. He measured the time rate of heating or cooling
and took the arrest points as the points of transition. These points
differed by 5°, and the mean of the two points was taken as the true
temperature of transition. The total effect of pressure over the range
of 250 kgm. was little more than the width of the band of indifference
of the individual measurements. The insensitiveness of the method
is indicated by the fact that he found no variation of slope with pres-
sure, whereas the variation ought to haAC been easily perceptible even
over this low range. Lussana nevertheless, gives the results to three
significant figures.
On the III-IV curve the conditions are similar to those on the II-III
curve. Lussana gives for the slope over the first 250 kgm. 0.0137
against 0.0135 computed, and Tammann gives for the range up to
the triple point the average slope 0.0220. I find for the average slope
over the first 250 kgm. 0.0178, and for the average slope up to the
triple point 0.0226, in sul)stantial agreement with Tammann. A
thoroughgoing comparison of my results with those of Tammann is
not possible, because he has not taken any account of the known
curvature of the transition line in computing the values at atmospheric
pressiu'e. It is evident, howe^•er, that both his results and mine
would difter in the same direction from the only other data at at-
mospheric pressure, namely those of Bellati and Romanese, and also
from those of Lussana. It seems probable that there may be some
considerable experimental error in the data of Bellati and Romanese,
and that the curvature of the III-IV cur\e, although large, can ac-
count for only part of the discrepancies.
The coordinates that Tammann finds for the triple point II-III-IV
are considerably diflferent from mine. He finds 64.16° and 930 kgm.
against my values 63.3° and 860 kgm. For the average slope of the
II-IV line between the triple point and 90° Tammann finds 0.01404
and I find 0.01416. The agreement is better than usual.
The pressure effect on the transition I-II has been previously
measured only by Lussana. He finds 0.0116 for the average slope
over the first 250 kgm. against my value 0.00962.
The measurements of the difference of compressibility of the differ-
ent phases at high pressures did not give any ver}- regular results.
This much may be stated, however; I is more compressible than II,
of the order O.OeS, and is more compressible than VI of the order O.OeS,
and IV is more compressible than II of the order 0.068. This last is an
