EFFECTS OF PRESSURE ON NITRATES.
()21
with any of them. AgNOa may be disregarded in any comparative
study, therefore, and in the following only the five alkaline nitrates
are considered.
A comparison of the phase diagrams is more significant when we
combine with it a discussion of the mixed crystal relations. Wallerant
has given in his book a most elaborate account of the mixed crystal
situation, and I shall draw my data from him.
One conclusion to be drawn from this discussion will be that simi-
larity of phase diagrams is evidence of the most complete similarity
of structure, more complete even than the ability to form continuous
series of mixed crystals. Judged by this latter test, the five alkaline
nitrates are very similar. Wallerant has proved that every one of the
five can form mixed crystals in limited proportions with every one of
the atmospheric polymorphic forms of all the other nitrates. The
phase diagrams are not the same, however, for all five nitrates; those
of Rubidium, Caesium, and Thallium are most similar. Each of
these three diagrams contains a transition line between the cubic
form (7) and the orthorhombic, pseudo-hexagonal, form (6). The
use of the same numerals for these phases in the different diagrams is
justified by the fact that within the proper temperature range the
phase 7 or 6 of any of the three salts will form a continuous series
of mixed crystals with the phase 7 or 6 of any of the others. We may
call the line 7-6 the "same" line in the various diagrams. This line
preserves various of its characteristics with very little change from
substance to substance, as is shown by the summary in Table VIII.
The lines 7-6 correspond so closely that we expect further similarity
of the phase diagrams of these three salts. We should expect for
TABLE VIII.
Properties of Traxsitiox
Line 7-6.
Substance
Average
slope
Average Av
cm.3/gm. %
Curvature
Variation of
Av
RbNOs
.009
.0052
1.0
Normal
Normal
CsXOs
.009
.00.3.5
1.3
u
«
TIXO3
.008
.0024
1.3
"
"
