622 BRIDGMAN.
CsNOg and TINO3 a line 8-7 like that of RbNOg. Such a line has
not been found, however. Failure to find it for TINO3 is not strange ;
the transition 8-7 may well have risen above the melting point, which
is comparatively low, only 205°. But failure to find it for CsNOs
is not so easy to explain. If the transition point has risen above the
melting point, which for CsXOs is at 414°, the effect of increasing
molecular weight on the transitions 8-7 and 7-6 is very different in
going from RbNOa to CsNOa; the latter is depressed from 164° to 154°,
while the former would be raised from 219° to over 414°. It seems
quite possible that the transition for CsNOs may have been over-
looked, and that a careful search up to 414° would be worth while.
The mixed crystal diagrams of RbNOs with CsNOs and TINO3 suggest
that both the latter salts would show the modification 8 if it were not
for the interference of the liquidus line.
With regard to the transition 6-2 of TINO3 there is certain indirect
evidence that such transitions exist for both CsNOs and RbNOs,
although their existence has not been directly proved. Wallerant
states that CsNOs passes to another modification on cooling in liquid
air. The crystalline form of this new modification he found to be
rhombohedric, approximately cubic. This is not the same as the
crystalline system of TINO3, 2, which is orthorhombic, but the diffi-
culty of crystallographic observation at very low temperatures does
not make it absurd to suppose that the system may have been in-
correctly determined. The existence of another modification is of
itself significant. With regard to RbNOs, Wallerant's observations on
mixed crystals of the system NH4NO3 - RbNOs make it almost certain
that at low temperatures RbNOs has another modification. In the
mixed crystal diagram there is a range of concentration, varying with
temperature, within which RbNOs and NH4NO3 crystallize together
in a form with all the characteristics of TINO3, 2, a form which has not
been found for either pure RbNOs or NH4NOS. An easy extrapola-
tion of the region of the mixed crystals indicates at low temperatures
the existence of the phase as pure RbNOs. I am not aware that
Wallerant made the same examination of RbNOs down to liquid air
that he did of CsNOs. If it should turn out that RbNOs and CsNOs
have the phase 2, the transition point to 6 would be quite differently
situated for these two salts than it is for TINO3. This need not be
surprising; the work of Tutton on the sulfates, for example, has
shown that although the Thallium salts are closely related to those of
the alkaline metals proper, yet a detailed analysis shows abrupt dis-
continuites in the numerical magnitudes.
