EFFECTS OF PRESSURE ON NITRATES. 023
The diagram of KNO3 next demands attention. The phase I or
8 is the same as the phase 8 of RbNOs. It is most tempting- to call
the new high pressure phase III the same as 7 and IV the same as 6,
for this would mean that at high pressures, by a simple displacement
of the origin of pressure, the diagram of KNO3 takes its place with
those of higher molecular weight, RbNOs, CsNOs, TINO3. Further-
more, a shift of the pressure origin in this direction, corresponding to a
decrease in molecular weight, seems a not unnatural result of the
corresponding decrease of internal pressure. It is unfortunate that a
comparison of numerical results is not favorable to this identification.
The only data which we can use are for the line III-IV; we are to
inquire whether this can correspond to the line 7-6 of RbNOs, CsNOs,
and TINO3. The slope of the line III-IV is 0. 3, while that of 7-6
varies from 0.008 to 0.009 and the change of volume on the line III-
IV is 5.5% against 1.6, 1.3, and 1.3% respectively for the other three
salts. Another bit of presumptive evidence against the identification
of III with 7 is that the unstable form of KNO3 found below the transi-
tion I-II at atmospheric pressure is rhombohedric. It is plausible,
but not necessary, to suppose that this unstable form is the same as
III. But the form of 7 is cubic. The evidence is not conclusive
either way, however, and it would be worth while to make special
effort to find the system of KNO3 III; the triple point I-II-III is at
such a low pressure that it would not be out of the question to try for
a microscopic examination in a heavy glass capillary.
In the case of NH4NO3 the probability is fairly good that the new
phase VI stable only at high pressures is the same as 6 of Rb, C's, and
Tl. This is indicated not only by its position with respect to 7
(NH4NO3, I) but also by the numerical values. The average slope of
7-VI is 0.0075 and the change of volume 1 .4% ; both of these are very
close to the corresponding values for the Rb, Cs, and Tl salts. The
probability is further much increased by the mixed crystal diagrams
of NH4NO3 with RbNOs and CsNOs. Mixed crystals of RbNOg or
CsNOs, 6, are stable over a very wide range of concentration, which
comes closest to pure NH4NO3 at the same temperature as that
indicated by an easy extrapolation of the line I-VI for NH4NOS to
atmospheric pressure. The same argument cannot be applied to the
mixed crystal diagram of NH4NOS with TINO3 because of the anomo-
lous behavior of NH4NO3, II.
To make the correspondence of NH4NO3 with the heavier nitrates
complete, the phase IV of NH4NO3 should be identical with III of
TINO3. But both Groth and Wallerant treat these two phases as
