NEW INDO-MALAYAN LABOULBENIALES. 45
Laboulbenia Grylli nov. sp.
Basal cell of the receptacle hyaline without a blackened foot, twice
as long as broad, its base abruptly rounded and penetrating the host
by a simple rhizoidal filament, the subbasal cell abruptly slightly
broader above it, greatly elongated, hyaline, slightly broader distally,
sometimes narrower in the mid-region, the terminal portion above it
slightly and abruptly narrower; cells III-V yellowish, granular-punc-
tate, cell II somewhat larger than the other two combined, cell V small,
triangular, hardly reaching to cell III, and usually proliferous to form
a small branched appendage similar to the branches of the main
appendage. Main appendage arising from a single small basal cell
seated on a well defined black insertion, its cells mostly rather short
and stout, more or less constricted at the septa, the basal cell bearing
two branches, erect, several times successively branched, the branch-
lets divergent often at almost a right angle; both the primary and
secondary appendages hyaline or pale yellowish, bearing here and there
a few short antheridia of the usual type. Basal cells of the perithe-
cium small but clearly defined above cell VI, which extends downward
in a point beside the end of cell II. Perithecium very large, almost
wholly free, paler straw-colored, with a brownish tinge below; a
symmetrically inflated venter clearly distinguished from a greatly
elongated, but slightly tapering, nearly hyaline neck-portion, above
which a long slender tip is abruptly distinguished, which is suffused
with pale reddish brown, becoming blackened distally, except the tip
of the outer lip-cell, which subtends the external pore. Perithecia
500-750 X 100-120 /x; the tip 70-75 X 18 m; the neck 50 /x at base
and 32 fx at distal end. Spores 45 X 7 /x. Receptacle, basal cell
about 160 X 70 m; the subbasal 550-780 fx by 60 /x; 70-80 /x at distal
end. Total length to tip of perithecium 1300-1700 fi.
On the inferior surface of the abdomen, near the tip, of Gri/llus
alhifrons Sauss. Samarang, Java.
This fine species is very conspicuous from its great size, being one
of the largest of all the Laboulbeniales. It bears a very remote resem-
blance to L. {Ccraiomyces) Dahlii, which also penetrates the host
by means of a well defined rhizoid which, in the present species,
appears to be always simple. Two infected hosts were sent me by
Mr. Jacobson and abundant material has been examined. In every
individual the cell-arrangement is exactly that of LabouUienia, except
that the main appendage arises from a single basal cell. This cell.
