'1630 VERHOEFF AND BELL.
The fundamental purpose of this investigation has been to dis-
cover what if any pathological effects can be produced upon the
structure of the eye by exposure to artificial or natural sources of
light. That such action may occur under sufficiently powerful
exposure to radiant energy is certain, but the essential fact is the
discovery of the quantitative relations between the amount of incident
energy and the effects. These relations have generally been left
quite out of the reckoning in discussing the subject, with the result
of leading to vague and often quite unwarranted conclusions as
irrelevant as if one should condemn steam heating as dangerous
because one can burn his finger upon a radiator.
The quantitative phase of the matter is, from a practical standpoint,
all-important since on it depends the actual effects to be expected
from the exposure of the eye to powerful natural or artificial sources
of light. Although the literature of the suljject is very extensive,
the appended bibliography covering over 450 titles, practically none
of the work done has been quantitative in the sense of connecting
the amount and kind of the energ\' received with the effects produced,
and hence, despite the work of many careful investigators, the results
have been singularly discordant and inconclusive, so that a coordi-
nation of the facts from the standpoint of energy has seemed impera-
tive. One of us ^^ has investigated recently the energy relations
of the radiation from various sources of light both natural and arti-
ficial, and the intent of the present investigation has been to determine
by actual experiment on the eye the quantitative and qualitative
effects of radiant energy on the conjunctiva, cornea, iris, lens, and
retina.
It has long been known that excessive radiation of one kind or
another produces pathological changes in the eye, of many kinds and
greatly var;)dng degrees of intensity. So far as natural light is con-
cerned the well known effects of powerful solar radiation in producing
snow blindness and allied troubles have been long familiar as also
have been the severe scotomata due to direct observation of the sun,
familiar in the literature under the general name of eclipse blindness.
With the introduction of the electric arc, mild cases of ocular trouble
due to over exposure to the arc began to attract attention, at first
nearly a half a century ago, and the subject has occupied an increasing
space in the literature ever since. More recently attention has been
particularly drawn to the ultra violet radiation as productive of these
pathological conditions, and most of the investigations bearing on the
general subject have been directed toward the study of the specific
