EFFECTS OF RADIANT ENERGY ON THE EYE. G31
action of the ultra violet. It, therefore, becomes of fundamental
importance to examine the effects of radiant energy with special refer-
ence to their relation to the wave length of the radiation.
Nature and Distribution of Radiant Energy.
All radiant energy is at present believed to consist of transverse
vibrations in the hypothetical ether, all propagated at the same rate
and differing only in amplitude and wave length, hence in frequency,
which is the reciprocal of wave length. The uniform propagation
rate in vacuo is very nearly 300,000 km. per second and the wave
lengths so far as ordinarily dealt with range from about .01 to about
.0002 mm. For ordinary purposes no attention need be paid to the
extremely long wave lengths ranging to .1 mm., to the extremely
short ones between .0001 and .0002 mm., or to the enormously shorter
one still of the order of magnitude of .0000001 mm. such as the X-rays
are believed to be. For the very long waves are not present in material
amount in the radiation from ordinary sources. The very short ones
are absorbed by a few cm. or dm. of air, and the X-rays are practically
only produced in apparatus intended for that purpose. The spectra
given by all ordinary sources range between the more modest limits
just given. In the earlier literature this spectral range used to be
divided into heat rays, light rays, and actinic rays, a distinction
wholly artificial since the three effects implied are far from being
sharply defined. More generally the whole range is divided into the
infra red portion, not ordinarily visible and extending from the longest
waves to those of about 760 ixfj., the visible spectrum, extending from
about 760 fj-fx to about 395 ix/jl, and the ultra violet portion reaching
from 395 nij. to the neighborhood of 200 mm- This distinction is not
rigorous or with sharp limits. While artificial distinctions have led
to many misunderstandings, all radiation of whatever wave length
is convertible into heat when absorbed by material bodies and may
produce chemical changes as well. As a matter of fact these latter
show a general tendency to increase with the frequency of the oscilla-
tions, so that chemical changes are rare in the infra red and increasingly
frequent as one approaches the extreme ultra violet. It is this tend-
ency that is shown in the pathological changes which may be caused
in living cells by the incidence of radiation.
The rationale of the chemical effect of radiation seems to be that
while all radiation transfers energy to the molecules which absorb it
