632 VERHOEFF AND BELL.
and produce heat, certain particular wave frequencies fall into step,
as it were, with the oscillation periods which depend on the mo-
lecular structure, and so break up the molecules when the energy
absorbed is sufficient. The particular kind of radiation which pro-
duces this direct action depends on the character of the molecules.
Thus, for instance, the green modification of silver bromide is readily
broken up by radiation of wave length as great as 1 /jl, while it requires
radiation of double this frequency to affect ordinary silver bromide,
and the molecules of living protoplasm begin to break up only when
the wave length is down to about 300 yu/x as we shall show. But most
chemical compounds are unaffected by any practical amount of
radiation which may fall upon them except as they may be heated to
the point of decomposition. Any effect which is due to radiation
is in the last analysis dependent on the absorption of that radiation,
in that there is involved a transfer of energy to the molecules or their
parts in order that they may be heated or shaken apart. Every sub-
stance absorbs radiant energy in greater or less degree, and the amount
of absorption bears a definite relation to the thickness of the body as
well as to the particular wave length of the incident energy. Certain
substances, like fluorite and to a less degree quartz, let pass with very
little obstruction radiation from far into the infra red to wave length
200 iJLiJL. Water absorbs the longer wave lengths of the infra red up
to about 1.2 /i powerfully, and transmits nearly everything else up to
the extreme ultra-violet, while pure air, generally speaking extremely
transparent, produces some small but sharp absorption in the visible
spectrum and completel}^ wipes out the extreme ultra violet. But
whatever the wave length, the law connecting the absorption of energy
with thickness of the medium is extremely definite. If a layer of unit
thickness transmits a certain fraction T then any other thickness x will
transmit a fraction T'^ of the incident energy. Thus, if a substance
transmits badly, leading to a low value of T, very little energy gets
through the outermost layers, while if it be fairly transparent a con-
siderable amount of energy penetrates deeply. For example, a cer-
tain Jena glass transmits violet light through 1 mm. of thickness
with only a small fractional per cent of loss. It transmits the same
light througli a cm. of thickness with the loss of only 2%, while
near the extreme ultra violet of the solar spectrum it still transmits
a little over 90% for a mm. of thickness, but barely 3S% through a cm.
Where, therefore, radiant energy falls on a solid upon which through
absorption it produces powerful chemical action, the immediate effect
will be almost wholly superficial, and only by prolonged and intense
