EFFECTS OF RADIANT ENERGY ON THE EYE. 635
examined the effect of the other radiations which are received from
natural or artificial sources.
Our first aim Avas to ascertain what quantitative relations existed
between the incidence of energy on the eye and the pathological effects
which might follow. Especially we desired to ascertain whether
these effects were proportional to the incident energy and hence to
such primary lesions as might be produced by it, or serve to set in
train pathological changes of an extent not proportionate to the
primary inducing cause. To this end we first turned our attention
to the so-called ophthalmia electrica or photophthalmia (Parsons),
at once the earliest known and commonest of the superficial pathologi-
cal effects of radiation. Probably first observed by Foucault and
Despretz about sixty years ago, it received its first notice from the medi-
cal standpoint in a paper by Dr. Charcot. ^^ His brief clinical observa-
tions are here reproduced in full as they are typical so far as the
external effects go of a mild case of this particular affection. The
luminous effects as described, are not characteristic and were no
doubt purely psychical, and due perhaps to undue attention having
been called to the sensations of light normally arising in the dark
adapted eye. The fusion and vitrification of refractory substances
produce far more intense eft'ects of this kind than would have been
noted in the other experiments cited by Dr. Charcot.
Erythema Produced by the Action of the Electric Light. By Dr.
Charcot. — The fourteenth of February last two chemists were cooperating in
making some experiments on the fusion and vitrification of certain substances
by the action of the electric battery. They made use of a Bunsen battery of
120 elements. The experiments lasted about an hour and a half; but during
this time the action of the battery was frequently interrupted and it was not
working in all more than twenty minutes. At the distance of the experi-
menters from the arc, about fifty cm., they were not sensible of a rise in tem-
perature. Nevertheless, that evening and during the whole night which they
passed without sleep they found in their eyes a feeling of severe irritation and
saw almost continually flashes and colored spots. The next day both had
upon their faces erythema of a purplish color with a feeling of pain and tension.
In the case of M. W., the right side of whose face alone was exposed to the
luminous arc, the reddening covered that whole side from the roots of the hair
to the chin, and the sparks were only seen as if before his right eye. In the
case of M. M. who had held his head lower and whose face had been protected
against the arc by his brow, the brow only was affected with erythema. Upon
both the experimenters the appearance of the skin in the parts affected was
exactly that of sunburn; a slight desquamation was established at the end of
four days and lasted in all five or six days.
