636 VERHOEFF AND BELL.
This effect of the electric light is very curious and in its pathology one may
perhaps find the rationale of sunburn properly so-called. Everybody knows a
high temperature is not a necessary condition for the production of this last
affection, for there are some people who are attacked in the cool weather of the
first days of spring, a fact analogous to those which we here report. Both
concur in showing that in the radiation of the light it is not the calorific rays
which attack the skin.
Must one then invoke the action of the luminous rays themselves? No, or
at least the intensity of the light seems to play only a secondary role. Indeed
in the experiments made by M. Foucault in coupling several Ruhmkorff coils
to produce sparks of which the length increased with the number of bobbins
and where he had been able by the means of a double action interrupter to
double the number of these sparks without diminishing their energy, this
observer was attacked by headache, very marked and persistent troubles of
vision and erythema, although the light was not more intense than that of a
star which one looks at without fatigue. M. Despretz has noted that light
obtained with 100 Bunsen elements produces eyeache and that from 600 ele-
ments very rapidly produces erythema.
There remain the so-called chemical rays and it is this sort of rays which
seems to be the principle essential agent of the accidents. To protect the eyes,
it suffices as M. Foucault has several times noted, to let the electric light pass
through a uranium glass screen which absorbs a large proportion of the chemi-
cal raj^s. Doubtless by protecting the face with this same uranium glass one
would avoid also the production of erythema. The very rapid and energetic
action of the electric light upon the skin and upon the retina one can under-
stand the better since the chemical rays in it are as is well known relatively
more abundant than in the solar light.
An ordinary clinical case of photophthalmia as observed after
exposure to arc lights, short circuits, and the like, commonly takes
the following course. After a period of latency, varying somewhat
inversely with the severity of the exposure, but usually several hours,
conjunctivitis sets in accompanied by erythema of the surrounding
skin of the face and eyelid. There is the sensation of foreign body
irritation, more or less photophobia, lacrimation, and the other ordi-
nary symptoms of slight conjunctivitis. Occasionally there is some
chemosis. The symptoms usually pass off in two or three days, and in
severe cases there may be desquamation of the affected epidermis
around the eye. In a very few instances the cornea has been slightly
and temporarily affected. There is almost always immediately fol-
lowing the exposure, and quite unconnected with the photophthalmia
proper, the ordinary results of a glare of light in the eyes, persistent
after images, occasional scotomata, erythropsia and xanthopsia.
