060 VERHOEFF AND BELL.
3 minutes. After l^ hours: Exposed right eye 6 minutes; left eye,
3 minutes. Marked reaction with haze of cornea and loss of epithe-
lium in each eye. Microscopic examination: (5 days after first expo-
sures) : Cornea of each eye shows marked abiotic changes with loss
of epithelium and endothelium. Lens epithelium shows abiotic
changes in both eyes, but more marked in left eye.
Histological Technique.
Fixation: In a few of the earlier experiments the eyes were fixed
in a warm saturated mercuric chloride solution as recommended by
Birch-Hirschfeld. This was not found, however, superior to Zenker's
fluid for demonstrating the structure of the ganglion cells, particularly
the Nissl bodies, and Zenker's fluid at room temperature was there-
fore used for fixation in all except one of the experiments relating to
the retina. Before opening the eye it was usually placed in the
fixing fluid for about ten minutes. This pre^'ented the cornea from
losing its shape and the sclera and retina from becoming distorted
as happened when the eye was immediately opened. The eye was then
incised all around at the ora serrata, the vitreous body gently lifted
out, the lens removed and the two portions replaced in the Zenker's
fluid for four to six hours. Longer fixation gives less brilliant results.
After fixation the tissues were washed in running water twenty-four
hours.
Embedding: Celloidin embedding was employed in all except one
experiment in order to avoid the shrinkage that results from the
paraffine process.
Cornea and Iris: Meridional sections 8 to 10 /x in thickness were
always made, passing through the middle of the most affected part
of the cornea and the centre of the pupil. Tangential sections of the
cornea 6 to 8 yu in thickness were also frequently made. The sections
were stained in alum hematoxylin followed by .2% solution of water
soluble eosin in 80% alcohol.
Lens Capsule: The most satisfactory method of demonstrating
changes in the capsular epithelium is by means of flat preparations.
This method was used by Hess ^^^ and later by Martin,^^^ but Birch-
Hirschfeld ^^ speaks of using flat sections. The method as we have
carried it out is as follows : The eye is opened as already described, by
an incision passing just behind the ciliary body all arountl. The
zonule is then cut all around by means of scissors, care being taken
