46 THAXTER.
however, the basal wall of which is blackened in the usual fashion,
should probably be regarded as the equivalent of the ordinary inser-
tion-cell of other species, and always produces distally an inner and
outer branch, which would thus be homologized with the inner and
outer appendages of the usual type, such as is present in the very
closely allied species described below. That this is also the condition
in the type of Ccraiomyccs, {C. Dahlii), above referred to, seems also
evident, and the peculiar black, bottle-shaped cell in this species, which
bears terminally an inner and an outer branch, should be regarded as
a modified insertion-cell. The secondary appendage, which arises
from the proliferation of cell V, and may sometimes be partly lateral
in position, corresponds exactly to the similarly developed appendage
seen in L. proUfcraufi.
Laboulbenia subulata nov. sp.
Receptacle shorter than the perithecium, the basal cell somewhat
shorter than the subbasal, curved and narrower below, rather abruptly
enlarged just before penetrating the host by means of a usually simple
rhizoid, which is abruptly bulbous just below the integument; the sub-
basal cell stout, broader distally, hyaline or pale straw colored, concol-
orous with the basal cell; cells III-IV small, nearly equal, separated
externally by an indentation, deeper yellow, granular-punctate; cell
V triangular, reaching to the apex of cell III. Insertion-cell normal,
reddish brown, rather broad, giving rise to an outer and inner append-
age in the normal fashion, the basal cells of which are similar; both
appendages branching two or three times successively, hyaline, rather
short; the ultimate branchlets tapering to blunt extremities; the cells
not separated by conspicuous constrictions. Perithecium subulate,
elongate, the venter relati^'ely small with a more or less clearly defined
narrower basal portion, slightly inflatefl, but hardly distinguished
distally from the broad tapering neck-portion; the tip distinctly
bent, not distinguished from the latter, except for the clearly visible
terminations of the wall-cells, and a slightly purplish-brown suffusion,
deeper at the apex, which is slightly asymmetrical, the inner lip-cells
more prominent, with conspicuous round lip-valves, the pore lateral
and external. Perithecia 500-700 /x; the venter 120 X 58 /x; the tip
48 X 20 fjL. Spores 28 X 4 /x. Receptacle 275-400 X 58 m-
On the inferior surface of the abdomen of GnjUus Burdigalcnsis-
Cerisyi Ser\'. Immature specimens of apparently the same species
on GryJlu.s mitraius Burm.
