664 VERHOEFF AND BELL.
maximum in about 48 hours, when, as will he pointed out, there is
some leueocytic infiltration.
After 3 days the purulent conjunctival discharge becomes less,
but it may not entirely subside for about 9 days. The corneal epi-
thelium is usually reformed on about the 4th day. Haziness of the
cornea noticeably begins to subside in 3 to 10 days. After five weeks
only a slight central haze remains. Following sufficiently intense
exposures, new vessels are seen extending into the cornea from the
hmbus in about six days.
The conjunctival reaction that occurs after moderate exposure
to abiotic radiations, is only in very small part reflexly due to irrita-
tion of the cornea. This is proved by several experiments in which
the cornea was exposed through a diaphragm which protected the
conjunctiva. Here, although the cornea was markedly affected, and
the epithelium destroyed, the conjunctiva showed no reaction until
after about 48 hours, and then only slight hyperemia.
The foregoing description applies to the effect produced on the
cornea by moderate exposures to the bare mercury vapor quartz
lamp, or bare magnetite arc, and by relatively long exposures (5 to
20 minutes) to the magnetite arc through a water cell, quartz lens
system, and crown screen. The latter absorbs all rays less than
295 ju/z in length and thus protects the corneal stroma from injury.
With the magnetite arc, and quartz lens system, but without
any screen, a very much greater as well as different effect may be
produced. With this arrangement and an exposure of 20 minutes a
dosage is obtained that is more than one hundred and fifty times as
great as that of a liminal exposure necessary to produce slight keratitis.
Following such an exposure the following changes occur. Immediately
after the exposure the cornea is perfectly clear. At the end of thirty
minutes there is slight hyperemia of the conjunctiva and central
haziness of the cornea. At the end of four hours the conjunctivitis
is marked and the corneal haze much greater. The exposed area is
completely anaesthetic. The epithelium is intact, but stains slightly
in flourescine. The iris is highly congested. At the end of twenty-
four hours there is a marked general inflammatory reaction of the
conjunctiva with oedema and purulent discharge. The epithelium
is lost from the exposed area in twenty-four hours, and reformed
about thirty-six hours later. On the fourth or fifth day the cornea,
without becoming more hazy, begins to swell in the exposed region.
This swelling increases and the aft'ected area becomes softened until
an appearance is produced on about the eighth day of a large flaccid
