EFFECTS OF RADIANT ENERGY ON THE EYE. 665
vesicle involving two-thirds the area of the cornea. This condition
remains almost unchanged until about the thirteenth day, except that
on al)out the sixth day vascularization of the cornea is observed.
On about the fourteenth day the inflammatory reaction, which has
almost completely subsided, begins again. This is probably a reaction
of repair. During this time the process of vascularization makes
rapid progress and the new vessels invade the central area which is
now somewhat firmer, but still pits when touched by a probe. On the
twenty-fifth day the inflammatorv' reaction is again almost gone and
the new ^•essels have begun to disappear. The exposed area is now
only slightly swollen and no longer pits, but is very cloudy. On the
thirty-third day the vessels have largely disappeared. The exposed
area is no longer swollen and presents a translucent appearance.
After two months the surface of the cornea is smooth and there is a
translucent interstitial opacity. The repair of the injury is much more
complete than could be expected in the case of a human cornea.
After an exposure of five minutes i. e. one-fourth the former dosage,
to the magnetite arc through the quartz lens system and water cell
the cornea undergoes softening in the exposed area as in the case
of the longer exposures. The injury, however, is repaired without
vascularization of the cornea, leaving a central translucent scar.
The Histological Changes Produced in the Cornea by Abiotic
Radiations.
The histological changes produced in the cornea by abiotic radia-
tions were studied chiefly in eyes exposed to the magnetite arc with
and without interposition of quartz lenses and various screens. Corre-
sponding to the differences in the clinical effects, different histological
effects were obtained when a crown glass screen was used than when
it was omitted. The chief difference was that with the crown screen
the corneal stroma escaped injury, due to the fact that it was then
protected from all waves which it strongly absorbed, namely, waves
less than 295 fjifx in length. With the crown screen, exposures sufficient
to destroy the epithelium always severely injured the corneal cor-
puscles. Without the crown screen, on the other hand, owing to the
greater abiotic activity of the short rays stopped at the surface of the
cornea, the epithelium was destroyed by exposures too short to have
any visible effect on the corneal corpuscles. On account of these
differences the histological effects produced by the short waves and
relatively long waves will be described separately.
