666 VERHOEFF AND BELL.
The Histological Changes Produced in the Cornea by Abiotic
Waves over 295 mm in Length.
Since, for reasons already given, the central portion of the cornea
under the usual conditions of the experiments is much more strongly
affected than the periphery, the various degrees of injury produced
are easily made out by examining the cornea from the periphery
towards the centre. Examined in this way twenty-four to forty-eight
hours after exposure, it is found that the epithelium first shows spacing
out of its basal cells, and then in addition descjuamation of the super-
ficial layers until finally the epithelium is more or less abruptly cast off.
At the margins of this erosion the individual epithelium cells show
changes similar to those met with in the case of the lens capsule, that
is, formation within the cytoplasm of eosinophilic and basophilic
granules. Swelling of the cells, however, is not noticeable, possibly
because the cells are cast off when this occurs. The nuclei are rela-
tively little affected, although some of them are pycknotic. Mitotic
figures are observed only in the apparently normal epithelium at the
periphery of the cornea.
After exposures through a crown screen (295 fxix) sufficient to produce
injury to the lens capsular epithelium, the corneal lamellae show slight
if any changes; possibly they stain less deeply in eosin. The corneal
corpuscles, however, show marked changes. Just as in case of the
lens epithelium, all of the cells are not equally injured and certain
cells here and there entirely escape, which are fewer in number the
more severe the exposure. In the most exposed region, after twenty-
four hours many of the nuclei are barely or not at all visible, while
most of the others are in various stages of pycknosis and fragmen-
tation. The cytoplasm often contains eosinphilic and basophilic
granules similar to those seen in the lens epitheliimi. These are more
abundant after twenty-four hours and are best seen in thin tangential
sections. The eosinophilic granules are less readily seen in the cornea
than in the lens epitheliimi, probably because they are to a greater
or less degree masked by the eosin stained stroma. The effect on the
corneal corpuscles is progressively less the deeper they lie, but an
exposure of five minutes to the double lens system through the crown
screen (295 /i/x) is sufficient completely to destroy all the corpuscles
in the entire thickness of the cornea and also to destroy the endo-
thelium. Polymorphonuclear leucocytes begin to invade the cornea
in about twenty-four hours, reaching their maximum number in about
