EFFECTS OF RADIANT ENERGY ON THE EYE. G69
area, many of the nuclei of the corpuscles are pycknotic or fragmented,
and cells often contain eosinophilic and basophilic granules. Further
away, the nuclei are enlarged and some of them show direct di\ision.
A few mitotic figures are also seen. The stroma in the exposed area
is still more swollen, stains still less in eosin, and shows evidences
of injury down to Descemet's membrane. The individual lamellae
are no longer recognizable and the stroma appears as an almost homo-
geneous substance pervaded by indistinct wavy lines. There is a
moderate leucocytic infiltration.
After twelve days (PI. I, Fig. 1) the stroma is still more greatly al-
tered. In the centre of the exposed area it has lost its normal structure
and has undergone semi-liquefaction almost down to Descemet's mem-
brane. This softened area contains a large amount of fibrin and a
considerable number of pus cells and endothelial phagocytes. The
leucocytes, however, are too few in number to cause an appearance
in any way resembling an abscess. Around the area of softening
groups of corneal corpuscles are actively proliferating, forming cells
similar to fibroblasts. The epithelium is intact although altered in
appearance. Numerous vessels are making their way into the cor-
nea from the limbus. The endothelium has been almost completely
reformed, but presents an abnormal appearance due chiefly to ine-
qualities in the sizes and shapes of the cells.
After two months the cornea has returned to its normal thickness.
The epithelium and endothelium are normal. The stroma in the
affected region presents an abnormal appearance, but less so than
might be expected. The corneal corpuscles are greatly increased in
number and their nuclei are abnormally rich in chromatin. The
new formed corneal lamellae are less regularly arranged than in the
normal cornea and here and there occur areas of hyaline tissue that
has not yet become definitely laminated. Blood vessels are still
present but are small and few in number.
The Conjunctiva.
The clinical effects of exposure of the conjuncti\'a to abiotic rays
have already been described. Histologically the following changes
were noted in the bulbar conjunctiva 24 to 48 hours after exposure to
abiotic radiations: Necrosis and desquamation of the epithelium.
Infiltration of the epithelium with pus cells. Congestion, edema.
