670 VERHOEFF AND BELL.
interstitial hemorrhages, and shght purulent infiltration of the sub-
epithelial tissue. Basophilic and eosinophilic granules were not ob-
served in the epithelium, possibly due to the fact that the cells were
cast off when this degree of injury was reached. These changes were
obtained after exposure to the magnetite arc with and without the
single quartz lens. In the experiments with the double lens system
the conjunctiva was not exposed.
The Iris.
Clinical. Twenty-four to forty-eight hours after an exposure
sufficient to injure the lens epithelium, the pupil becomes contracted
and the iris shows marked congestion and minute interstitial hem-
orrhages in the exposed region. The congestion quickly subsides^
but the hemorrhages may remain visible for several weeks.
Hi,stoJogicaI. The iris is directly affected only after exposures
sufficient to injure the lens epithelium. After exposure to the bare
magnetite arc sufficient to produce marked conjunctivitis and kera-
titis, but insufficient to produce apparent injury- the lens epithelium or
corneal corpuscles, the anterior chamber may contain serum and fibrin,
evidently the result of an indirect effect on the iris vessels. After
exposures sufficient to injure the lens epithelium, there is seen, in
addition to congestion and interstitial hemorrhages, an insignificant
exudation of pus cells from the iris vessels. With these changes, few
if any individual cells of the iris may show signs of injury. After
an exposure of 20 minutes to the magnetite arc and lens system,
the albinotic iris in one experiment (Exp. 68) shows marked cell
changes similar to those of the lens capsule. The cells affected are
the stroma cells, the endothelial cells of the vessels, and the posterior
epithelium. From some of the blood vessels the endothelium is com-
pletely lost. Tlu'ombosis, however, is not observed. The character-
istic basophilic and eosinophilic granules are most noticeable in the
cells of the posterior epithelium, no doubt due to the fact that these
cells are most abundant. Similar changes are found after 6 days in
a lightly pigmented iris (Exp. 56) but here the pigment hides any
possible change in the pigment epithelium. In most of the experi-
ments with the double lens system the pupil was widely dilated so that
the iris was only slightly exposed to the light.
Posterior synechiae were not observed in any of our experiments.
