EFFECTS OF RADIANT ENERGY ON THE EYE, 671
Birch-Hirschfeld states that adhesion of the pigment epitheUum to the
lens occurred after fixation in some of his experiments, although the
light intensities used were far less than those used by us. As already
pointed out, the adhesions noted by Birch-Hirschfeld were undoubtedly
artefacts due to the action of the fixing fluid alone, since they occur
in the case of normal eyes. In view of the numerous control eyes ex-
amined by this observer, it is difficult to understand why he was not
aware of this fact.
The Character of the Changes Produced in the Lens by Abiotic
Radiations.
The light intensities and wa\'e lengths necessary for the production
of abiotic effects in the lens epithelium have already been given
(page 651).
In none of our experiments was an opacity of the lens produced
sufficient to be visible through the cornea. Even when the lens was
examined in air after its removal from the eye it appeared perfectly
clear. If, however, it was placed in normal salt solution it showed
a delicate haziness in the pupillary area 48 hours after a severe
exposure.
Histological. In all except one experiment upon the lens, the cap-
sule was removed and examined as a flat preparation, so that it was
impossible to make a satisfactory examination of the lens substance.
To determine the effect of the abiotic radiations upon the latter,
the lens in one experiment (Exp. 67) was fixed in formalin and hori-
zontal sections made of it. The magnetite arc, water cell and system
of quartz lenses were used without a screen, and the exposure was
20 minutes. This was the exposure that had been found to produce
extreme changes in the capsular epithelium. The eye was enucleated
at the end of 48 hours. On microscope examination the lens capsule
proper is found unaltered, while the epithelium shows the marked
changes described below. The lens substance is definitely affected
but only for a microscopic depth, the distance beneath the capsule
by actual measurement nowhere exceeding 20 fi. In this narrow
zone it stains much more intensely in eosin than the rest of the lens
substance and is highly vacuolated. Occasionally it contains an epi-
thelial cell which has evidently been forced into it.
Lens Capsular Epithelium. This is the best possible tissue in which
to study the cell changes produced by abiotic radiations because of
