NEW INDO-MALAYAN LABOULBENIALES. 47
Although numerous immature specimens of this form are available
for examination, few mature individuals have been seen, and it is not
improbable that the measurements will vary considerably from those
given when abundant material is available. The type corresponds
to that of Laboulhenia in every detail, and though closely allied to L.
Grylli seems abundantly distinct.
Misgomyces ornatus nov. sp.
Relatively short and stout, pale amber-brown, the posterior margin
more deeply suffused. Receptacle not distinguished from the primary
appendage; the former consisting of four superposed cells, the basal
longer and narrower, distally geniculate, the rest broader than long,
the uppermost larger, five sided, bearing the stalk-cell of the peri-
thecium on one side and continuous with the primary appendage on
the other. Primary appendage consisting of normally three super-
posed cells, the basal larger and associated with a small cell which is
separated from it on the inner side and lies between it and the stalk-
cell of the perithecium to which it is firmly united ; the two upper cells
flattened, sub-hemispherical, bearing on the inner side branches more
or less copiously branched to form a usually short dense tuft; the ulti-
mate branchlets usually terminated by paired antheridia, which are
relatively long, without well distinguished necks; the distal cell of the
appendage also bearing at first a short outcurved evanescent append-
age, continvious with the deeply suffused posterior marginal wall.
Perithecia borne on a short, but well defined, stalk-cell; its basal cells
clearly developed; the lowest, which lies at the right, much larger and
somewhat broader than the portion of the base above it; the body
rather short and stout, the outer margin straight, the inner convex,
distally broad and abruptly distinguished from the tip, which is
subtended on the inner side by a conspicuous short brown blunt
tooth-like process; the pore minute and lateral on the inner side, a
subterminal outer wall-cell assuming a terminal position and extend-
ing upward and outward to form a blunt-tipped somewhat divergent
concolorous appendage, which becomes relatively long and slightly
sigmoid. Perithecia, including base, without terminal appendage,
SO-90 X 23-30 Ai; its terminal appendage 25-75 X 4.5 ^i; the stalk
cell 14 X 11 yu. Spores 35-40 X 2.5 m- Total length to tip of pri-
mary appendage 65 X 25 /j., the tuft of branches 35-45 /x. Antheridia
32 X 2 M.
