EFFECTS OF RADIANT ENERGY ON THE EYE. 673
the largest being about one-fifth the diameter of the nucleus and the
smallest immeasurably fine. They also are usually round, but some-
times irregular in shape. Often they are contained within the eosin-
ophilic granules. Owing to their strong basophilic character, the
natural assumption would be that the,y represent chromatin extruded
from the nuclei. Such an origin however, cannot actually be traced.
On the contrary, the impression is given that the cytoplasm first
breaks up into, or is transformed into the eosinophilic granules, and
that the basophilic granules are formed primarily within the latter.
After intense exposures, as will be pointed out, the nucleus may
undergo disintegration, in which case some of the granules in the cyto-
plasm are undoubtedly nuclear fragments.
(c) The wall, first so named by Hess,^''^ consists of a ring of deeply
staining closely packed cells at the periphery of the exposed area,
that is in the position corresponding to the pupillary margin at the
time of the exposure (PI. 3, Figs. 8 and 9). The cells are evidently in a
state of compression and in marked cases may be heaped upon each
other. The wall is visible after 19 hours but later becomes more
evident. The cells within it show only to a slight extent the changes
seen in the central area. Martin ^^^ assumed that the wall was due
to "submaximal damage at the pupillary margin." This, however,
is certainly not the case since submaximal exposures or any other
exposures do not give rise to a similar condition of the cells within
the pupillary area itself.* Hess explained the wall as a result of the
compression of the marginal cells by the sheet of swollen cells in the
pupillary area. This explanation seems undoubtedly correct. We
have found a similar if not identical wall four days after the injection
of staphylococci into the anterior chamber. The cells in the pupillary
area were swollen but did not contain basophilic and eosinophilic
granules. We have found such a wall also 24 hours after the injec-
tion of Lugol's solution into the anterior chamber, as described below
(page 676). As will also be pointed out, a somewhat similar but
yet different wall may be produced by the action of heat transmitted
by the iris (page 696).
In spite of the marked changes in the cytoplasm of the exposed
cells, the nuclei remain comparatively normal in appearance except
* Martin described in the capsule of one rabbit repeatedly exposed, a zone
of proliferated cells which somewhat resembled the wall of Hess. The pupil-
lary area, however, was otherwise free from abiotic changes. The condition
was attributed to the effects of abiotic radiations, but in our opinion was almost
certainly a congenital malformation such as we also have seen.
