074 VERHOEFF AND BELL.
after the most intense exposures. Some nuclei show distortion, due
possibly to the uneven compression of the swollen cells, and some stain
less deeply than is normal, but following exposures through a crown
screen fragmentation is seldom observed. Marked nuclear changes are
seen after long exposure to the magnetite arc through the double lens
system without a screen, but even then only relatively few nuclei are
affected. Ten hours after such an exposure nuclei here and there
show the following changes : The nucleus becomes transparent and its
chromatin converted into coarse deeply staining granules attached
to the nuclear membrane. The transition of a normal nucleus into
this state is evidently very alirupt. The nucleus then becomes
polymorphous in shape and undergoes fragmentation. Usually the
fragments are each bordered by nuclear membrane and contain one
or more coarse chromatin granules.
Mitotic figures are first seen after about 48 hours among the
unexposed cells just outside the wall where they occur in large num-
bers. After 5 days they are greatly diminished in number here.
After 3 days a few may also be found in the wall itself. Within
the exposed area mitotic figures are not seen until about the fifth day
when they occur in considerable numbers. At this time the cells are
still swollen. The basophilic granules are little if any changed except
possibly they are more often irregular in shape, but the eosinophilic
granules have largely become confluent and are apparently under-
going solution. The mitotic figures are never seen in cells containing
granules. Many of the nuclei are abnormally large and show early
stages of direct division and budding.
At the end of ten or twelve days the cells have almost entirely lost
their swollen appearance and the basophilic and eosinophilic granules
have almost entirely disappeared. The most striking feature now
consists in the inequalities in sizes and shapes of the nuclei. Most of
the nuclei are abnormally large; occasionally one has three times the
diameter of a normal nucleus. Some are abnormally small. Many
of the nuclei evidently are undergoing direct division, as all the stages
in this process can be seen, from a slight constriction of the nucleus to
two nuclei connected by a delicate strand. In addition to this, a
process of budding can similarly be traced, the nuclei becoming poly-
morphous in shape and constricting off buds varying in size from that
of a normal nucleolus to half that of a normal nucleus. Some cells
contain as many as twelve of these free buds. The buds have the
reticulated structure, staining reaction and general appearance of the
nucleus proper, and each most often contains a nucleolus. Cells
