EFFECTS OF RADIANT ENERGY ON THE EYE. 675
that contain two nuclei of nearly equal size always contain smaller
buds in addition. At first glance the nuclear buds may be mistaken
for persisting basophilic granules, but careful examination shows that
they bear no relation to the latter either in appearance or origin.
Few if any mitotic figures can now be seen in the exposed area or else-
where.
At the end of 5 weeks or 2 months the capsule shows about the
same appearances as after 10 days (PI. 3, Fig. 7) . There is perhaps still
greater variation in the sizes of the nuclei, and a greater number of the
excessively large ones. The cells with double nuclei and nuclear buds
are still present. In case of the extremely severe exposures, a few
cells are found still containing basophilic granules after two months.
In connection with the foregoing observations on the lens capsule
several interesting questions arise. In the first place how is the abun-
dant mitotic division of the unexposed cells in and around the wall to
be explained? This proliferation is not due to minimal exposure to
the rays for it does not occur in the pupillary area 48 hours after
liminal or subliminal exposures. It is also not due to heat trans-
mitted by the iris, because when a flint screen is substituted for a
crown screen it does not occur after exposures more than four times
as long. The only remaining possibility seems to be that it is due to
toxic substances diffused from the injured cells of the exposed area.
If this is the case why are not mitotic figures seen at the same
time in the exposed area? The answer to this is probably that the
cells are here so greatly injured that they cannot respond at once
to the irritation of the toxic substances, which, moreover, may at
first be so concentrated as to inhibit rather than stimulate the nuclei.
This brings up the question whether abiotic radiation is a direct
stimulant or depressant to mitosis. It certainly is not a direct stimu-
lant because, as just stated, after liminal or subliminal exposures
mitosis does not occur. On the other hand it probably is a depressant
because following intense exposures mitosis occurs in the exposed area
only after relatively long intervals (four to five days) and then only in
cells that have escaped apparent injury. This is in marked contrast
to the action of heat, which, as will be shown, produces abundant
mitosis in 48 hours and is evidently an active stimulant to cell pro-
liferation.
Whether or not abiotic radiation is a direct depressant to mitosis
