676 VERHOEFF AND BELL.
it is certain that repair of the injury to the lens epithelium takes
place largely without the aid of this process. This is proved by the
fact that mitosis does not occur in tlie severely injured cells, that is
in the cells containing granules. Each of these cells, therefore, if it
imdergoes recovery as usually is the case, must do so without indirect
division. It is evident that the eosinophilic and basophilic granules
finally' become dissolved out. The enlargement, direct division, and
budding of many of the nuclei probably represent the response of
the latter in the process of cell repair. Similar nuclear changes are
sometimes seen in malignant tumors. The nuclear buds are still
present at the end of two months and their ultimate fate is prob-
lematical.
Finally the question arises whether or not the cell changes de-
scribed are characteristic only of the action of abiotic radiation. As
will be pointed out later, experiments on the cornea prove that the
basophilic and eosinophilic granules are not produced by heat, and
thus their occurrence in cells constitutes a distinct difference between
heat and abiotic effects. On the other hand, the following experi-
ment proves that the same cell picture may be produced by chemical
agents. A few drops of Lugol's solution containing 25% iodine were
injected into the anterior chamber of a rabbit's eye. The injected
fluid became mostly precipitated so that its action on the lens surface
was not uniform. On examining the lens capsule 24 hours later
there were found, in addition to more extreme changes, areas in
which the cells showed identically the same changes, including the
basophilic and eosinophilic granules as are produced by the action
of abiotic radiation. It is therefore obvious that these changes are
not characteristic of abiotic action alone, but may be produced by
other forms of chemical action as well. It is interesting that in this
experiment, as previously mentioned, a wall was formed similar to
that produced l)y abiotic rays, evidently due to the pressure of the
injured cells within the pupillary area on the peripheral cells which
were protected from injury by the contact of the iris with the lens
(PI. 3, Fig. 10).
The changes just described occurring in the lens capsule after expo-
sure to abiotic rays, are essentially the same as those described by
Hess ^^^ who used much longer exposures but a light source of much
less intensity than employed by us. Hess does not describe the
granules in the cytoplasm, although they are shown well in his excel-
lent illustrations. He also does not describe direct division and
budding of the nuclei, although the latter process likewise seems to be
