EFFECTS OF RADIANT ENERGY ON THE EYE. 679
all those less than 400 njx in length. Now we have already shown
tiiat the corneal epithelium and lens capsule are not affected in the
slightest degree when exposed one and one-half hours to rays as short
as 310 AtjU even when the intensity is considerably greater than that to
which the retina is ever subjected in the case of any of the known
artificial light sources. This exposure is at least forty-five times
greater than that required to affect the corneal epithelium by waves
of 295 /X)U and less. For the retina therefore to be affected by the
abiotic action of light transmitted by the lens, it would have to be
many times more sensitive to such action than the corneal epithelium.
There is no reason to believe however, that this is the case, but on the
contrary, since the abiotic effect depends upon the amount of absorp-
tion of the waves, there is strong reason for believing that the corneal
epithelium and retina are about equally sensitive to abiotic action.
Assuming this to be so, these experiments show conclusively that the
human eye could be fixed steadily and at close range upon the magne-
tite arc certainly for over two hours and probably for many hours
without suffering damage to the retina from abiotic action. Since
as already pointed out the intensity of the image of a source of light of
such small size as that in question decreases as the square of the dis-
tance, the danger of injury to the retina at ordinary distances would
be absolutely negligible.
In the case of the lenses of some children, Hallauer found a very
weak transmission band at 315 to 330 ju/x. This, however, does not
invalidate the application of the above argument to the case of chil-
dren, since we have shown that such waves are without abiotic eft'ect.
While it seems to us that the foregoing facts prove conclusively
enough that the lens affords complete protection to the retina from the
abiotic action of light, in view of the fact that Birch-Hirschfeld claims
to have produced pathological changes in the retinae of normal rab-
bit's eyes by exposure to ultra violet light (cf . page 687), we have under-
taken to investigate this question by direct experiment upon the retina
itself.
Such an investigation presents several difficulties. In the first
place it is impossible to reproduce with animals exactly the conditions
that obtain when the human eye is fixed upon a small intense source
of light. This is so because it is impossible to insure in the case
of an animal that the small image of the light source will always fall
upon the same spot in the retina during the exposure. Moreover,
even if this were possible it would be difficult if not impossible to find
with certainty such a small area on microscopic examination unless
