fiSO VERHOEFF AND BELL.
the lesion produced was well marked. It is therefore necessary to
illuminate a large area of the retina. This we have done by means of a
suitable system of quartz lenses used in connection with the magne-
tite arc as described on page 648. Intense illumination of such a large
area, however, for a long period of time entails a danger of over-
heating the fundus of the eye. This we have successfully obviated
by interposing a quartz, cell 5 cm. thick filled with distilled water to
absorb most of the infra red rays. If this had not sufficed, heat effects
could probably still have been prevented by interrupting the expo-
sures at intervals to allow for cooling to take place, a procedure that
no doubt would be necessary for light intensities only slightly greater
than that used by us. In fact in one of these experiments in which
the water cell leaked, a heat effect on the pigment epithelium was
actually noted (Exp. 88).
As will be seen the system of quartz lenses employed concentrated
the light more intensely upon the cornea and lens than upon the retina.
Advantage was therefore taken of this fact to determine at the same
time the effect of exposures through various screens upon these struc-
tures, the results of which have already been given. None of the
screens obstructed any waves longer than 305 /x/x to 315 ^lyit, that is,
any waves that otherwise could have reached the retina through the
lens. The screens also pre^■ented excessive keratitis, which we de-
sired to avoid since it would have prevented us from later making
satisfactory tests of the lid reflex and pupillary reaction to light.
If these reflexes had been abolished this fact alone would have fur-
nished sufficient proof of the deleterious action of the radiations on
the retina. As a matter of fact, except immediately after exposure
a lid reflex was always obtainable.
The details of these experiments are given on pages 655-658.
(Experiments 65 to 90). It will be observed that the exposure was as
long as one and one-half hoiu's in each of four experiments and one
hour in each of six experiments. In all except one experiment the
retinae were prepared for microscopic examination in the manner
already described (page 661). In Experiment 78 the eye was immedi-
ately opened and the retina bisected vertically through the optic disc,
one half being fixed in a saturated solution of mercuric chloride and
embedded in paraffin. The sections, 2 /x in thickness, were stained
in thionin as in the case of the other experiments. The other half
of the retina was used for vital methylene blue staining, the results of
which will be mentioned later in commenting on Birch-Hirschfeld's
observations (page 687). In none of the experiments could any
