EFFECTS OF RADIANT ENERGY ON THE EYE. 681
apparent changes be found in the exposed retinae that could not be
found in unexposed retinae prepared by the same method. Certainly
if there were any differences in regard to the Nissl bodies of the gang-
lion cells they were too slight to be of any pathological significance.
These experiments thus show that, so far as can be determined by
histological examination, the retina of the normal eye, exclusive of
heat effects, is fully protected from abiotic action by the lens. Since
however, the objection may be brought forward that the retina may be
injured so far as its function is concerned without showing any histo-
logical evidence of the fact, we have endeavored to exclude this possi-
bility also. For this purpose we employed the monkey instead of the
rabbit because this animal possesses a macula similar to that of man.
With the lens system described it is easily possible to illuminate
intensely a sufficient area of the retina to insure that the macula is
always included. If under these circumstances the light has an
injurious action on the retina it will be rendered evident, since the
macula is injured, by marked impairment in sight and particularly
by a loss or impairment of the pupillary reaction. To avoid injury
to the cornea by abiotic rays and injury to the retina by heat we made
use of a H% solution of copper chloride in a quartz cell 5 cm. thick.
The spectrum of this solution (PI. 5, Fig. 4) shows that it absorbs all
waves shorter than 320 /x/x as well as all the so-called heat waves. It
thus does not obstruct any short waves that could otherwise reach tlie
retina through the lens.
In these experiments two monkeys were employed in each of which
the left eye was blind. One was an old female monkey, whose left
eye had been rendered blind by an experimental Kronlein operation
involving injury to the optic nerve, one year previous to the first of
the present experiments. The otlier was a young full grown male
monkey, whose left eye had been rendered blind by injection of
alcohol into the orbit nine months previous to the first of the experi-
ments. Ophthalmoscopic examination showed complete optic atrophy
in the left eye of each. Neither monkey could find the way about
when the right eye was excluded from vision. Direct pupillary re-
action to light was absent, but the consensual reaction was well
marked. This made it possible to determine the presence of a pupil-
lary reaction while the right eye was under the influence of the mydri-
atic, while the fact that the left eye was blind made it easy to detect
any impairment of vision of the right eye. In each animal the visual
acuity of the right eye was high, as shown by the ease with which it
was able to catch flies and lice. The absence of binocular vision did
