EFFECTS OF RADIANT ENERGY ON THE EYE. 683
mydriatic having accidently gotten into the left eye. Animal has
great difficulty in getting around, vision evidently being much im-
paired. After one hour vision is much improved; the animal follows
the observer with the eye. March 29, 1913. Cornea clear. Well
marked lid reflex to flash light. Consensual pupillary reaction also
well marked. Visual acuity of animal apparently normal except that
animal has difficulty in catching flies owing to eft'ect of cycloplegia.
After several days, the mydriasis having disappeared, the animal is
able to catch flies with her usual dexterity.
Experiment 94b. December 4, 1913. Old female monkey. Right
eye exposed 1^ hours. One minute after end of exposure there is a
barely perceptible consensual pupillary reaction. After six minutes
the reaction is well marked. Animal now released. Cannot see
approach of observer's hand. Is compelled to feel her way to her
perch in the cage. After one hour she is still apparently blind ; can-
not see a carrot held near her, although she takes it when placed
against her mouth. After seven hours, vision is still impaired.
December 5, (18 hours). Cornea clear. Vision apparently normal —
sees carrot, avoids hand movements etc., even in poorly illuminated
cage. Consensual pupillary reaction normal. After the mydriasis
has disappeared the animal catches flies as usual.
Experiment 94c. February 5, 1914. Young monkey. Right eye
exposed 1| hours. Three minutes after beginning of exposure the
consensual pupillary reaction, tested with flash light, is absent.
Immediately after end of exposure the lid reflex to flash light is present,
but the consensual pupillary reaction is absent. At the end of three
minutes the latter is distinctly visible, and in six minutes is well
marked. Animal now released, finds his way at once to perch, avoids
hand of observer — evidently sees well. One hour after exposure
the eye lids of right eye are sewed together. When released the
animal cannot find his way about and is easily caught, thus showing
that if the sight of the right eye had been affected the fact would
have been easily determined. February 6. There is a small abra-
sion of the cornea probably due to the animal having frequently
rubbed his eye as a result of a slight irritation produced by the sutures.
Cornea clear. Consensual pupillary reaction intact. Animal sees well.
February 7. The abrasion of the cornea is healed. Consensual
pupillary reaction intact. Animal shows no evidences of poor vision.
After the mydriasis has disappeared the direct pupillary reaction to
light is normal and the animal seems to have normal vision.
The results of these experiments show that even with exposures of
