684 VERHOEFF AND BELL.
extreme intensity and length, but insufficient to produce heat effects,
it is impossible to injure the retina by light containing any or all rays
capable of reaching it through the lens. They exclude both the pos-
sibility of injuring the retina by over stimulating its perceptive
mechanism, and also of injuring it l)y the abiotic action of light.
Most surprising was the rapidity with which the retina regained its
function. Thus in all four experiments within six minutes the con-
sensual pupillary reaction was fully reestablished. There was in both
sets of experiments, however, a marked difference between the young
and the old monkey in regard to the time required for the restoration
of usefid vision. In the case of the young monkey sufficient vision to
enable him to see his way about, avoid hand movements, etc., was
present in ten minutes after the exposure ended. The old monkey
on the other hand was practically blind for an hour or more. In fact
her visual acuity did not seem to l)e fully restored until the morning
following the exposure. Both animals were able to catch fiies with
their usual expertness after the mydriasis had disappeared.*
The results obtained in these experiments would also seem to be of
some significance in regard to the question of light adaptation. They
suggest that after a certain state of retinal fatigue is reached no
further effect is produced, however long the exposure. In fact it would
seem, in young individuals at least, that after this stage is reached the
recuperati^'e processes begin while the retina is still exposed. This
aspect of the question, however, does not concern us here and further
experiments would be necessary to elucidate it fully.
In addition to the experiments on the eyes of monkeys we have
availed ourselves of an exceptional opportunity to make a similar
experiment upon a human eye. The subject was a female patient
aged 50 years affected with carcinoma of the eyelid and orbit, the
growth being so extensive as to necessitate removal of the eye. The
left eye itself was apparently normal, the media being clear and the
fundus normal. The visual acuity was reduced to fg— (unimproved
by lenses) for some reason not definitely determined, but probably
due to some irregularity in refraction resulting from the pressure of
the upper lid. The lower lid was almost completely destroyed, while
the upper lid was somewhat drawn down by cicatricial tissue at the
outer canthus. It was therefore necessary for the observer to hold
up the eyelid by finger pressure during the experiment. The right
* Both of these monkeys were later killed, one after seven months, the other
after fourteen months, and on microscopic examination the eyes that had
been exposed wer3 found normal.
