48 THAXTER.
Near the middle of the outer margin of the right elytron of a small
carabid allied to Taclu/.s. Peradeniya, Ceylon, No. 2093f : Samarang,
Java, No. 2081 f.
This species is referred to Misgomyccs not without hesitation,
since its receptacle and perithecium appear to be generally determi-
nate. Although its perithecium is \ery peculiarly modified, and
quite unlike that of any species of Misgomyccs known at present, its
receptacle and appendage correspond sufficiently well to justify this
provisional reference. The same form is known from Borneo and the
Philippines and is always found growing appressed in the position
above indicated. The apex of the perithecium with its peculiar
appendage, which varies considerably in length according to the age
of the individual, suggests a pointed monk's hood.
Misgomyces Lispini nov. sp.
Wholly hyaline, usually straight and erect. Receptacle indetermi-
nate, Ijecoming broader distally; consisting normally of a series of
about ten to fifteen cells, much flattened, except the subtriangidar
basal cell; the uppermost bearing the perithecium on one side and
the primary appendage portion on the other; the latter consisting of
two, or usually three superposed cells closely united to the base of the
perithecium, the two upper, or only the uppermost, separated from it
by a long narrow marginal cell which extends nearly to its tip, and
appears to be originally derived from the lowest member of the series;
the terminal cell bearing one, rarely two 'appendages' from its nearly
horizontal or outwardly ol^lique upper surface, usually distinguished
by a constricted dark septum, and often more or less copiously
branched. Perithecium, including the marginal cell which assumes
the position of its inner wall, often nearly symmetrical, four fifths to
two thirds free on its inner side, subconical, tapering rather rapidly
and evenly from a broad base to a small truncate apex, the tip but
slightly distinguished and only on the inner side just above the
marginal cell. Perithecia 58-62 X 26-^32 fx. Total length to tip of
primary appendage portion 78-105 X 27-43 ^l. The branched ap-
pendage 50-75 iJL. Total length to tip of perithecium 110-140 ix.
On various parts of Lispinus imprcssicoUis iNIotsch., No. 2076,
Samarang, Java. No. 2101, Peradeniya, Ceylon. Also known from
Borneo.
This species occurs usually in small numbers on its host mid vai'ies
