EFFECTS OF RADIANT ENERGY ON THE EYE. 685
eye was normal and had normal visual aeuty. Before the experiment
the pupil of the left eye was dilated with atropine, but the visual
acuity remained the same. The total exposure was less than in the
case of the monkeys, owing to the patient becoming somewhat fatigued,
and for the same reason also the exposure was not continuous, but
otherwise the conditions of the experiment were the same.
The total exposure was 55 minutes, and the interval between the
separate exposures was about 1| minutes. The first three exposures
were 3, 9, 12 minutes respectively, the remainder were 5 minutes each.
At the beginning of each exposure the patient stated that the "light
was like the sun." At the end of the sixth exposure there was ery-
thropsia and the visual acuity was reduced to counting of fingers at
one foot. Within 2^ minutes after the last exposure the consensual
pupillary reaction was well marked, and the patient could with diffi-
culty count fingers at six feet. Three minutes after the last exposure
there was only slight erythropsia. Xanthopsia was not noted at any
time but may have been unrecognized by the patient. After 10
minutes the visual acuity was ^§q. There was an appearance of a
mist before the eye, but no erythropsia. After 1^ hours the visual
acuity was y§q, and a slight mist still persisted. After 3 hours the
visual acuity was ^q-\-, and a white surface seemed almost but not
quite as white as with the right eye. After 22 hours (in the morning),
the visual acuity was fg— as before the experiment. There was no
erythropsia, and central color vision was perfect for red, blue and
green. 24 hours after the exposure the eye was enucleated. On
microscopic examination the cornea, iris, lens epithelium (flat prepara-
tion), and retina were found to be normal.
The result of this experiment confirms those obtained with the
monkeys. It is obvious that the retina could not have been injured
by abiotic action of light, since the visual acuity was fully restored
within 3 hours and remained so the following morning. The rapid-
ity with which the erythropsia disappeared was unexpected, and
indicates that duration of exposure is equally as important as its
intensity in the production of persistent erythropsia.
