EFFECTS OF RADIANT ENERGY ON THE EYE. 689
was placed before the eye these changes did not occur. The exact
length of time after exposure when the eyes were examined is not
stated. It also is not stated whether or not the changes could be
found if the eyes were removed immediately after the exposures.
It is impossible for us to accept the findings in these experiments
for the following reasons. In the first place the retinal changes
described were widespread. To obtain a widespread illumination
of the retina, however, necessitates the use of a quartz lens of extreme
aperture. Birch-Hirschfeld does not state that he used such a lens.
The widespread illumination of the retina also necessitates a greater
intensity of illumination of the cornea and lens than of the retina.
This together with the fact that the lens capsule receives in addition
rays of much shorter wave length than can reach the retina makes it
inconceivable that the retina could be injured under these conditions
without the lens capsule also being affected. Yet Birch-Hirschfeld
states that in neither series of experiments was the intensity and dura-
tion of exposure sufficient to injure the lens. In fact the abiotic
intensity was so slight that the corneal epithelium was destroNcd only
in one experiment in which the cornea apparently became infected.
On the other hand if we assume that Birch-Hirschfeld used no lens
or a lens of ordinary aperture, the retinal lesions, if any, would have
been circumscribed and would not often have been found by his
method of examining the eyes. As we shall show, with sufficient light
intensity small retinal lesions can be produced under these condi-
tions, but they are due to heat and are entirely different from those
described by Birch-Hirschfeld. The radiant energy used b.y Birch-
Hirschfeld, however, was undoubtedly insufficient to produce such
an effect.
In his first series of experiments it is stated that the changes occurred
immediately after the exposures. This is inconsistent with an abi-
otic action of light, since with this there is always a latent period.
Thus we found that the epithelial cells of the lens capsule showed
absolutely no change if examined immediately after severe exposure
to abiotic rays.
Birch-Hirschfeld holds that the ganglion cell changes he describes
represent a further stage of light adaptation. Yet he maintains that
they are due to the direct action of the light on the ganglion cells
themselves. He states that there is no reason to believe that certain
cells are more susceptible to ultra violet light than others, yet he found
changes in the retinal ganglion cells and none in the capsular epithe-
lium in spite of the fact, just pointed out, that the latter must have
