EFFECTS OF RADIANT ENERGY ON THE EYE. G91
These observations are in accord with those of Bach made twenty
years ago. Investigating the possible effect of fatigue upon the
ganghon cells of the retina, Bach ^^ made a careful comparison of
retinae of rabbits exposed and unexposed to light. In some cases
eyes were exposed to a Welsbach light for 20 hours. Alcohol or
sublimate fixation was used and the sections stained by the original
Nissl method or in thionin. Contrary to the previous observation
of Mann^^^ and the later observations of Birch-Hirschfeld,^^ he was
unable to find that the ganglion cells of the exposed eye differed in
any way from those of the unexposed. He says: "Ich geh zu, dass
ich langere zeit im Zweifel war und bald diese bald jene Veranderimgen
gefunden zu haben glaubte, jedoch alles anscheinend Gefundene liess
mich die controle wieder als Irrthum erkennen. Es ist eben zu
bedenken, dass trotz gleicher Schnittdicke, trotz des genau gleichen
Verfahrens beim Farben etc. immerhim sich tinctorielle Unterschiede
ergeben konnen Ich muss bemerken, dass auch in normalen
Netzhauten an den Ganglienzellen sich Unterschiede besonders hin-
sichtlich der Menge vmd Anordnung, der Form der farbaren Plasma-
schollen ergeben, das auch normalen Weise Vacuolen in dem Zellleib
gefunden werden, das die Kerne sich verschieden verhalten konnen —
kurz ich konnte an den beleuchteten Netzhauten Nichts warhnehmen
oder vermissen was ich nicht an normalen, an verdunkelten Netz-
hauten auch wahrgenommen oder vermisst hatte."
Birch-Hirschfeld ^^ states that also by means of the vital methylene
blue staining method he found chromatolysis, vacuolization, and other
changes in the retinal ganglion cells of eyes that had been exposed
to ultra violet light, and that such changes were absent in normal eyes.
I find, however, by this method in the normal rabbit's retina, appear-
ances that correspond exactly to those described and depicted hy
Birch-Hirschfeld, including particularly the "vacuoles" in the gan-
glion cells which are abundantly present. The "vacuoles" at first
glance appear to be really such, but a careful study of them strongly-
suggests that they are here due to the cell reticulum staining more
promptly and deeply than the cytoplasm proper, and thus producing
an appearance of rounded spaces. I have also examined the retina by
the vital methylene blue method 48 hours after the exposure of one
hour to the magnetite arc and lens system (Exp. 78). The results
obtained were identical with those obtained in the case of an un-
exposed normal retina.
In addition to the experimental investigation just discussed, Birch-
Hirschfeld^^ has reported clinical observations in five cases of pho-
