692 YERHOEFF AND BELL.
tophthalmia following exposure to the mercury vapor lamp that he
claims demonstrate the pathological action of ultra violet light upon
the retina. In these cases he found, for colors only, para- or peri-
central scotoma, central relative scotoma, and constriction of the peri-
pheral field. Later ^* he reports that after an exposure of less than
I hour to the Schott uviol lamp he himself was affected with mild
photophthalmia followed by color field changes. He found a relative
color scotoma in each eye beginning 15° from the fixation point that
persisted 6 days. After this had completely disappeared he exposed
his left eye to the same light through a colorless glass obstructing
all waves less than 330 fxn in length and obtained no changes of any
kind. He regarded this as proof of his contention that the field
changes previously obtained were due chiefly to waves between 300 n/j,
and 330 /XM- -"^s a matter of fact, however, Hallauer ^^^ has shown
that the adult human lens absorbs all waves less than 376 mx and most
of those less than 400 fxij. so that this experiment of Birch-Hirschfeld
proves, if it proves anything, that the field changes obtained in his
clinical cases and in his own case were chiefly subjective or at least did
not represent pathological conditions. Moreover, as pointed out
elsewhere (page 721) Birch-Hirschfeld*^ himself has recently taken
exception to the similar field changes reported by Jess ^^^ in cases
of eclipse blindness on the ground that they might well have been
obtained in normal eyes.
Thermic Effects of Radiant Energy on the Eye.
The Cornea. In passing through the cornea, light of any wave length
is absorbed to some extent. Waves less than 295 fxij. are completely
absorbed while those over 315 m/x in length (judging by the results
of our experiments) are very slightly absorbed. The absorption of the
latter is no doubt due in part at least to the lamellae of the cornea and
the corneal corpuscles, which cause internal reflections and refrac-
tions, especially of the relatively short waves. With ordinary light
intensities the amount of energy absorbed is so slight that no heat
effects are produced, but with extreme intensities it is obvious that
the latter could be produced even in the case of visible rays. In five
of our experiments definite heat eftects were observed in the cornea.
That the effects were due solely to accumulated heat and not in any
degree to abiotic action, is proved by the character of the changes
