EFFECTS OF RADIANT ENERGY ON THE EYE. 693
produced, and by the fact that the epithehal cells of the cornea and
lens were unaffected. The screens were such that the lens received
waves of the same wave lengths as did the cornea. The corneal
epithelium was unaffected probably owing to its being cooled by con-
tact with the air. In no instance did the heat reach sufficient inten-
sity as to cause pain.
The most marked heat effect on the cornea was obtained in Exp.
88 in which the rays from the magnetite arc after passing through a
flint screen and water cell were concentrated for one hour sharply
upon the cornea by means of the quartz double lens system. Toward
the end of the experiment it was discovered that the water cell had
leaked, so that for an unknown length of time the eye had been exposed
to infra red rays in addition to the shorter waves. This undoubtedly
accounts for the fact that in no other experiment was such a marked
heat effect produced, and that no effect was produced in Exp. 85
in which the same conditions obtained except that the water cell did
not leak and the exposure was longer. 24 hours after the exposure
the affected area was hazy and swollen but the eye was free from
inflammatory reaction. On microscopic examination 48 hours after
the exposure the epithelium was everywhere normal. The stroma
was swollen to over twice its normal thickness and stained faintly
in eosin. Within the central portion of the exposed area not a
single corneal corpuscle could be seen. At the periphery the transi-
tion into normal cornea was abrupt as regards the corpuscles but
relatively gradual as regards the stroma. In the transition region
the corpuscle towards the normal side were in active proliferation,
many of them showing mitosis, while from here inward they suddenly
became invisible. The endothelium in the exposed region was for
the most part completely absent, but in some places a few faintly
stained cells still adhered to Descemet's membrane. The cornea was
ever^-where practically free from leucocytic infiltration. The iris
showed a few minute hemorrhages around the pupil undoubtedly due
to heat, since, as stated, the lens capsule was unaffected. (PI. 1,
Fig. 3.)
In the second experiment (Exp. 92) sunlight was focussed 45
minutes upon the cornea by means of a large quartz lens after passing
through a blue uviol screen and a .001% aqueous solution of auramine
O. Here the heat effect was similar but less marked than that just
described. The effect on the corneal corpuscles was about as great,
and the appearance of the stroma about the same except that it was
much less swollen. The corneal epithelium, the iris, and the lens
epithelium, were unaffected.
