^^694 VERHOEFF AND BELL.
The third experiment (Exp. 81) was similar to the first except that
the flint screen allowed waves down to 305 ijlh to pass and that the
water cell did not leak. The exposed corneal area was clear immedi-
ately after the exposure, but 20 minutes later was found to be
distinctly hazy. The epithelium at no time stained with fluorescine.
On microscopic examination of the eye, enucleated tliree days after
the exposure, the corneal stroma was found to be swollen in a rather
sharply defined area. The epithelium was normal. The corneal
corpuscles in the middle third of the cornea showed active prolifera-
tion, but in the posterior third had for the most part disappeared.
The endothelium was absent behind the exposed area. The iris and
lens epithelium were normal.
In the fourth experiment (Exp. 84) a flint screen transparent to
waves down to 310 /x/x was used and the exposure was one and one half
hours. The exposed corneal area was found to be hazy within one
hour after the exposure. On microscopic examination of the eye,
enucleated four days after the exposure, the corneal stroma was found
very slightly swollen and to stain less strongly in eosin in its posterior
layers. The corneal corpuscles showed marked proliferation in the
posterior portion of the stroma and the endothelium was absent
behind the exposed area. The iris and lens epithelium were normal.
In the fifth experiment (Exp. 90) a flint screen (Slii fxfx) was used
and the conditions were the same as in the first experiment with
the important dift'erences that the water cell was omitted and the
exposure was only 30 minutes. Distinct haziness of the cornea
was observed within 20 minutes and within 24 hours became very
marked. On microscopic examination (48 hours) the cornea showed
changes similar to and almost as marked as those of Experiment
88. The corneal epithelium and lens epithelium were unaffected.
Combined Thermic and x\biotic Effects of Radiant Energy
ON THE Cornea.
In four other experiments in which the exposures were prolonged,
both abiotic and heat effects were obtained in the cornea. The
screens used were transparent to waves less than 30.5 /jl/j. to 298 fx/j.
in length and the exposures were from one to one and a half hours.
In two of the experiments (Exps. 78 and 79) abiotic effects were indi-
<;ated by loss of corneal epithelium and characteristic changes in the
