696 VERHOEFF AND BELL.
what beyond 315 /x/i. It is also evident that the energy absorbed
from waves of 305 /x/x or over in length, is converted almost exclusively
into heat, only the slightest traces of abiotic action being obtained
with weaves of 305 jUjU in length after the most intense and prolonged
exposures.
It will be seen that the abiotic effects and heat effects of radiant
energy upon the tissues are essentially diiferent. In the case of heat,
a certain critical temperature is required before any effect is produced.
This is shown by the sharp transition from normal into injured corneal
corpuscles at the periphery of the exposed area, and also by the fact
that the epithelium, being kept cool by contact with the air, remains
unaffected. The heat effect therefore does not vary in direct ratio
with the intensity of exposure, obviously due to the fact that dissipa-
tion of heat enters into the equation. In the case of abiotic action
on the other hand the effect varies directly with the intensity of the
exposure. Heat of an intensity just below that sufficient to cause
cell destruction, causes cell proliferation. Abiotic action does not
directly cause cell proliferation no matter how intense or how slight
the exposure. Lastly, heat does not produce the eosinophilic and
basophilic granules in the cytoplasm that are produced by exposure
to abiotic radiation.
On the other hand, while it is evident that heat does not produce
effects similar to those produced by moderate exposures to abiotic
waves, extreme exposures to the latter may produce effects not unlike
the severe effects of heat. Thus we have shown that se\'ere exposures
to waves shorter than 295 /x^t in length may lead to complete disap-
pearance of the corneal corpuscles and marked swelling of the corneal
stroma. In the case of heat, however, the posterior layers of the
cornea are more affected than the anterior la.^ers while in the case of
abiotic action the reverse is true.
Thermic Effects of Radiant Energy upon the
Iris and Lens.
In Experiment 97 in which the eye was exposed for one minute
through a uviol screen to sunlight concentrated by the large mirror,
the pigmented iris was severely burned in the exposed area, showing
complete hyaline necrosis. The lens epithelium examined, after 48
hours, was unaffected in the pupillary area, but beneath the pupillary
