EFFECTS OF RADIANT ENERGY ON THE EYE. 699
conversion took place chiefly in the pigment epithelium and inner
layers of the chorioid, and that the outer layers of the retina proper
were affected b\^ the heat conducted therefrom.
An interesting problem is the exact determination, under various
conditions, of the minimum intensity and duration of exposure to
visible and infra red rays necessary to produce heat effects on the ret-
ina. A discussion of this problem will be found on pages 721 and 732.
The experiments in which heat effects on the retina were obtained
by means of the magnetite arc were Experiments 53, 55, 57 58, 59,
88, 89.
Following are the experiments with sunlight concentrated by the
large mirror.
Experiments.
SunligJit Focusscd on Cornea by Large Mirror.
Experiment 95. Without water cell or screen. Pigmented eye.
Three exposures, j second, | second, and 10 seconds respectively.
No inflammatory reaction. Enucleation at end of 33 days. Lens
epithelium normal. Three burned areas in fundus of different grades
of severity.
Experiment 96. Water cell. Flint glass screen (335 ^t^t). Albino.
Exposed 4 seconds. No inflammatory reaction. Lid reflex to light
abolished. Enucleation at end of 48 hours. Two contiguous bin-ned
areas in fundus, one exactly on disc. Marked hemorrhagic retinitis.
Slight hemorrhage from retina into vitreous.
Experiment 97. Blue uviol screen. No water cell. Pigmented
eye. Exposed 1 minute. After 1 hour: Pupil contracted to | normal
size, does not react to light. After 24 hours: Lid margins inflamed,
lower one ulcerated, no lid reflex to light. Cornea clear. After 3
days : Cornea shows purulent infiltrate below (infected from ulcerated
lid). Enucleation. Fundus shows two contiguous burned areas,
one at margin of disc. Microscopic examination: (3 days): Slight
purulent infiltration of cornea. Hyaline necrosis of iris. Lens epi-
thelium normal in pupillary area, shows proliferative changes beneath
pupillary margin (heat effect due to contact with heated iris. See
page 696).
Experiment 98 (PI. 4, Fig. 14). Water cell. No screen.
Albino. Exposed 14 seconds (misty day). No inflammatory reac-
