700 VERHOEFF AND BELL.
tion. Enucleation at end of 6 days. Fundus shows burned area just
beneath optic (Hsc. Lens epitheHum normal.
Experiment 99. Blue uviol screen. Water cell. x\lbino. Ex-
posed 1| minutes. No inflammatory reaction. Enucleation at end
of 12 days. Fundus shows burned area undergoing repair. Cornea,
lens epithelium, and iris normal.
Experiment 100. Blue uviol screen. Water cell. Albino. Total
exposure, 10 minutes, one second on, one second off. No inflamma-
tory reaction. Enucleation at end of 7 days. Retina shows no
burned areas. Cornea, lens epithelium, and iris, normal.
Experiment 101. Blue uviol screen. No water cell. Pigmented
eye. 220 exposures, I second each, with intervals of 1 to 3 seconds.
No inflammatory reaction. Fundus normal.
Character of the Thermic Effects Produced in the Retina.
In the experiments in which the pigment epithelium alone was
affected no changes were noted macroscopically. In most of the other
experiments the lesions could be seen with the ophthalmoscope or
better still on opening the eye after enucleation. They appeared as
sharply defined reddened spots. Some of those obtained after ex-
posure to sunlight showed blood extending from them into the vitreous
humor. Some of the spots were observed only after the eye was
placed in Zenker's fluid. In Experiment 96 in which a burned area
involved the optic disc, there was intense hemorrhagic retinitis ap-
parently due to thrombosis of the central vein. The spots produced
by sunlight measured about 2.5 mm. in diameter. Those produced
by the magnetite arc and single lens system were about 3 mm. in
diameter as measured under the microscope with reference to the
effects on the pigment epithelium, but only about 1 mm. in diameter
as measured with reference to the effects on the retina proper when
this was involved. This concentration of the effects in the center of
the area was no doubt due to two facts, one being that the light was
actually more intense here, and the other that towards the periphery
of the area the heat generated in the pigment epithelium became
rapidly dissipated.
Microscopical: The most striking feature of all the burned areas
whether due to long or short exposures was their sharp demarcation,
illustrating again here as in ^e case of the cornea how sharply critical
