EFFECTS OF RADIANT ENERGY ON THE EYE. 701
is the temperature required to injure tissues. In all cases the pigment
epithelium was the most severely affected of any portion of the retina,
and in the slightest burns it alone was affected. This was true also in
albinotic rabbits in which the epithelium was free from pigment. The
other structures were affected in the following order according to the
intensity of the action, the rods and cones, the chorio-capillaris, the
outer nuclear layer. The inner nuclear layer, the ganglion cells, and
nerve fibre layer, were affected only after extremely intense exposures
and in our experiments were not affected after exposures to the magne-
tite arc but only when concentrated sunlight was used.
The slightest change that can be definitely made out in the pig-
ment epithelium 48 hours after exposure consists in the cytoplasm
of a greater or less number of cells staining intensely in eosin. When
the effect is somewhat greater, vacuoles appear and may be so large
and numerous that the cells appear almost completely transparent,
the cytoplasm showing a delicate reticulum with the minute nodes at
the junction points. In case the epithelium is pigmented the pigment
appears to be separated from the membrane of Bruch by large vacuoles,
and the nucleus may show marked pycknosis. When the effect is still
greater the cell reticulum completely disappears leaving only the
nucleus in the clear space thus formed. The nucleus may show
fragmentation or simply chromatolysis. The basophilic and eosino-
philic granules characteristic of abiotic action are not seen. In the
somewhat more severe burns the pigment cells entirely disappear
leaving only the pigment. In one eye examined six days after ex-
posure the injured epithelium is found replaced by epithelium which
has evidently grown in from the periphery, but between the new layer
and the rods and cones numerous swollen vaculated and otherwise
altered pigment cells remain. The changes in the pigment epithelium
are best seen in plane section, and to determine the character of the
slightest changes it is important to compare the appearances seen in
the exposed eye with those of a normal eye.
Forty-eight hours after exposures sufficient to affect the rods and
cones, the outer limbs of the latter are found to be broken up into
coarse granules, while the inner limbs are swollen to large bladder-like
structures each containing a few fine granules. There may also be a
greater or less number of red blood corpuscles among the rods and
cones due to diapedesis from the chorio-capillaris, and also a certain
amount of serum. When the outer nuclear layer is aft'ected, the nuclei
lose their peculiar cross striations, becoming intensely pycknotic
and some of them undergoing fragmentation. With this degree of
