702 VERHOEFF AND BELL.
injury the pigment cells have disappeared, and fragmented nuclei
can sometimes be seen in the inner layers of the chorioid. The inner
layers of the retina, including the ganglion cells, remain normal in
appearance. (PI. 4, Fig. 12.)
In the experiments in which sunlight was used, as already noted,
much more intense heat effects are found in the retina and chorioid.
Here the inner layers of the retina are disintegrated while the outer
layers appear intact. This is undoubtedly due to the fact that the
latter have been coagulated and thus fixed by the heat. At the
periphery of the area the appearance is reversed, the inner layers
being normal while the outer layers show the less marked changes
already described.
Two to six days after such an exposure the coagulated rods and cones
maintain their normal appearance except that they stain abnormally
deeply in eosin. The nuclei of the external nuclear layer are likewise
coagulated, but have lost their cross striations and stain more deeply
than normal. The internal nuclear layer shows different appearances
in different places evidently according to the heat intensity. In
some places the nuclei still take the basic stain and show fragmenta-
tion. In others they stain in eosin and are not disintegrated, while in
still others they have entirely disappeared. The nerve fibre layer is
completely disintegrated and the ganglion cells have entirely disap-
peared or stain only in eosin. At the periphery, the ganglion cells
with their Xissl bodies stain less and less in thionin as the burned
area is approached until they become entirely eosinophilic. The
inner surface of the retina is in some cases coated with a thick layer
of fibrin. The pigment epithelium is coagulated and retains its
normal position in the exposed area. At the periphery it is disin-
tegrated. The chorioid behind it shows large extra vastions of blood
and marked nuclear fragmentation. There is no cellular infiltration,
purulent or otherwise, of either the chorioid or retina. (PI. 4, Fig. 14.)
After two months the retina is found replaced by neuroglia con-
taining migrated pigment cells. In some cases the chorioid is appar-
ently normal and the pigment epitheliiun reformed. In others the
latter is absent and the chorioid replaced by two or three layers of
a vascular fibrous tissue.
