EFFECTS OF RADIANT ENERGY ON THE EYE. 703
Theory of Action of Radiant Energy on the Tissues.
A useful conception of the effects of radiant energy upon the tissues
of the body is that the heat effect is due to increased molecular motion
while the abiotic effect is due to direct atomic disintegration of the
molecules with immediately resulting chemical changes. The first
effect of the increased molecular motion is to produce a physical
change analogous, for example, to the melting of ice. When the
motion reaches a certain critical rate the molecules are broken up and
various chemical changes result. Both heat effects and abiotic
effects theoretically may be produced by rays. of any wave length,
but practically in the case of short waves the heat effect is generall\'
negligible, while in the case of long waves the abiotic effect is negli-
gible. Our experiments show that for human cells the abiotic effect
becomes negligible within a ^'ery short range of wave lengths, that is
between 305 and 310 /i/x. For bacteria it becomes negligible still
sooner, at less than 295 /x/i. Under ordinary conditions heat effects
are also negligible here, and in fact all through the visible spectrum,
although with extreme intensities such as afforded by concentrated
sunlight they may be produced, as in eclipse Ijlindness, for instance.
It is in reality due to the fact that abiotic effects and heat effects
are negligible in the region of the spectrum indicated, that sunlight
under usual conditions is not destructive to human life. This fact,
considered from the standpoint of evolution, suggests a relation of
light to the origin and structure of living matter, but a discussion of
this aspect of the subject would lead too far.
Since according to this conception the abiotic action of light is
directly upon the structure of the molecules, slight chemical changes
are produced after almost infinitesimal exposures. Theoretically, of
course, there is a limit of exposure below which no disintegrating effect
is produced upon the molecules, so that a series of such short expo-
sures would produce no summative effect. Practically, however, this
would be impossible to demonstrate in the case of li\ing cells. On the
other hand, in the case of living cells summation of the effects of a
series of exposures, if the intervals were too long, would not accurately
occur, since the repair of the injury would take place to a greater or
less extent. Thvis we have found in the case of the corneal cells that
summation of effects becomes much less exact when the intervals
of exposure are over twenty-four hours.
