700 VERHOEFF AND BELL.
But substantially the whole of the solar spectrum which is capable
of producing abiotic action lies between 295 ^t^t and 305 ixjx, is evanescent
under most conditions, and only possesses pathological significance at
high altitudes and especially in extreme cold. Thei'e is good reason
to believe that the atmosphere is considerably more permeable to
ultra violet radiations at low temperatures than under ordinary con-
ditions, particularly as regards the extreme radiations. Figure 5
shows from the data of Abbot the distribution of energy in the so-
lar spectrum in curve (a) at Mt. Whitney for a zenith distance of 0°, in
curve (b) also at Mt. Whitney (14,000 ft.) but for zenith distance 60°.
Near the latter limit lies the general range of solar radiation as ob-
served at the surface. Two things in these curves are particularly
noteworthy, first that in both and especially at the higher altitude
the maximum radiation and indeed the bulk of the radiation in
general lies within the visible spectrum. Second, the maximum
energy lies not in the red, but in the case of the high altitude energy
fairly in the blue at about wave length 470 ixix and at the lower altitude
in the green at wave length about 500 /x/x. So far as the solar spec-
trum is concerned, therefore, the heat energy is chiefly within the
visible spectrum. No distinction therefore can be drawn between the
visible and the infra red spectrum on the ground of heat radiation and
all attempts to separate thermic effects by cutting out the visible
spectrum are therefore futile. So long as this reaches the eye it carries
with it the solar heat in its greatest intensity. From the area of the
curves here shown it appears that of the energy at high altitudes only
a very small proportion, of the order of magnitude of one quarter of
1% lies within the region 295 to 305 ^ipt. Even this small quantity is
evanescent at the sea level and at ordinary temperatures. It is to the
small remaining trace of abiotic rays here noted that the phenomena
of snow blindness are due. From the clinical standpoint snow blind-
ness is found to occur only as a photophthalmia of relatively very mild
degree and under exposures usually for a long period and either at
very high altitudes or very low temperatures or with both these condi-
tions concurring. On snow fields the exposure of the eye to solar
radiation, ordinarily greatly ameliorated by the obliquity of the inci-
dence, is rendered much more severe by the reflection from the snow
which is a good reflector down to the extreme ultra violet of the solar
spectrum. One would not go far wrong in estimating that the
radiation reaching the eye under such circumstances is of the order
of magnitude of a million ergs per square cm. per second. A single
square meter of snow at 2 meters distance would reflect to the eye
