EFFECTS OF RADIANT ENERGY ON THE EYE. 709
Under window glass and violet or blue glass it was slight, even after
considerable exposures, while with yellow, red, green or black glass
it was absent, although in each case the primary erythema was
marked. No investigation was made of the absorption of the various
glasses, but from our experiments the clear, the blue and the violet
glasses are likely to let through the margin of the abiotic radiations
in the thickness, 2 mm., here employed. Yellow, red, green and black
glasses would certainly cut these off. The skin in open exposure to
sunshine is very much more exposed to the full energy of the solar
radiations than is the surface of the cornea and conjunctiva and for
abiotic effects on the skin practically the full strength of solar radia-
tion is available. One would therefore expect to get action from
the abiotic rays in, at most, half the time noted with respect to the
cornea and conjunctiva for a similar degree of effect. In other words,
one should get in a couple of hours well marked effects and undoubtedly
slight erythema in an hour or so, as experience well shows is the case,
assuming somewhat similar degree of sensitiveness in the epithelial
cells. In case of extreme exposure to heat radiation distinct heat
effects may be found in either case. Dr. deLaroquette's observations
on the human skin were fully checked by exposures on shaven areas
on the skin of a guinea pig showing the same general phenomena.
Dr. deLaroquette also suggests that low temperature and wind drying
the epidermis and provoking intense superficial vaso-constriction
tends to exaggerate solar erythema. In this way some rational
account can be given of its occurrence under conditions of cold and
severe wind alone w^hen the abiotic action of the solar radiation would
be small or even wanting, in which case the effect would be a primary
rather than a secondary one. Finally, in solar erythema, as in pho-
tophthalmia, repeated exposures of somewhat subnormal intensity
give acquired tolerance, while the skin is, as well known, somewhat
hypersensitive to severe exposures following each other without
time for the lesions to undergo repair.
Our experiments with the bai'e magnetite arc as source indicate
that the liminal exposure for perceptible abiotic effects is practically
the same for the more sensitive parts of the skin as for the conjunctiva.
The inner portion of the forearm was the portion of the body exposed
in our w^ork on liminal exposures. Here with 6 minutes at .5 meter,
which corresponds very well with the production of mild photoph-
thalmia, a slight reddening of the skin appeared some few hours
after exposure, rose to its maximum inside of the first 24 hours and
vanished within a day or tw^o leaving no trace. Through the double
