710 VERHOEFF AND BELL.
lens system and crown glass screen (295 (x/jl) already described, the lim-
inal exposure was between 15 and 30 seconds, the former figure giving
no traces and the latter slightly more than a liminal exposure. In all
exposures over half a minute there was immediate heat erythema
and a subsequent development after a period of latency of a few
hours. There was a distinct but slight feeling of heat during the
exposure and a rather rapid extension of the erythema somewhat
beyond the limits of the 5 mm. stop which limited the area exposed.
In cases of severe exposure to the sun we are inclined to think that
this primary erythema due purely to the effects of heat is of consider-
able importance in the total results experienced. We found, as did
Dr. deLaroquette, that vaseline acted as a fairly complete preventive
as regards both primary and secondary erythema, particularly the
latter, while glycerine gave a slight protective action in our results,
more than would seem to be warranted in view merely of its trans-
parency to abiotic rays. From these observations and from the
clinical facts, often showing erythema greatly disproportionate to
the intensity of abiotic radiation likely to be present, it seems prob-
able that ordinary sunburn is due to a mixture of thermic and abiotic
effects of which the former are often the more prominent, although
they generally cannot readily be separated from the secondary abio-
tic effects, the development of which they tend to mask.
Erythropsia.
So-called erythropsia is the name of a phenomenon rather than of
a pathological condition. The clinical records are numerous but
vague. They all indicate a condition, generally very temporary,
in which the patient finds a more or less ruddy tinge in everything
seen. There is nothing definite in the tint of the coloration or the
period through which it is observable. It apparently runs from vari-
ous shades of orange and rose to a fairly full red. The most definite
description given of the apparent color, which evidently pertains to a
rather extreme incidence, is given by Fuchs ^^®, who compares it to a
strong fuchsin solution with a trace of eosin solution. A cursory ^-iew
of the clinical records indicates that the cases cited fall into three
general divisions. First, cases associated with neurosis such as those
gi\'en by Charcot and others (cited by Wyeller^^^). These clearly
cannot be associated with any pathological condition of the visual
