EFFECTS OF RADIANT ENERGY ON THE EYE. 711
apparatus. Second, there are many recorded instances of traumatic
erythropsia some of which at least evidently are associated with
the actual infiltration of the eye media with blood. Third, one finds
a vast majority of instances which one may term photo-erythropsia
in which the observed appearances, one can hardly dignify them by
the name of symptoms, are associated with over exposure to light.
These are so entirely without pathological significance that we should
hardly consider them here save for the fact that the phenomena have
been by some writers like Widmark *^^, Fuchs ^^^, and others, subse-
quently attributed to the effect of ultra violet radiations. As this
erroneous conception of the fact still persists in spite of the admirable
work of Vogt,^°^ it is desirable here to note the relation of this so-called
erythropsia to the general phenomenon of color vision. The whole
subject was thoroughly investigated recently by Wydler ^^^ who very
plainly showed that erythropsia is due to the red phase of the negative
after image following over-exposure to light, ordinarily brilliant white
light, although green and blue green illumination is even more effective.
The association of the phenomenon with ultra violet radiation appears
to be due to the fact that photo-erythropsia has been often observed
after the intense glare which produces snow blindness and not infre-
quently in the aphakic eye after an operation for cataract. That the
ultra violet really has nothing to do with the matter is clearly shown
by Vogt ^°^ who found that erythropsia could not be produced experi-
mentally by the ultra violet rays alone, but very easily by light rays
containing no ultra violet. We need only add here that it is possible
to produce marked erythropsia through euphos glass which transmits
no ultra violet, through B-naphthol-disulphonic acid which also cuts
off the ultra violet, and through dense flint glasses which eliminate
all of the ultra \aolet which could with any certainty get through the
lens. Also it is produced with great facility by radiation through
green and blue green media which intercept the ultra violet com-
pletely, but flood the eye with light of a color certain to produce a
strong red phase in the after image. The truth seems to be that the
so-called photoerythropsia is merely the result of such unequal fatigue
of the primary color sensations as leaves for a greater or less time there-
after a color sensation predominantly red. This conception clears
up at once the difficulty of accounting for the partial erythropsia
which has been noted by Purtscher ^^^ and others, since in cases of
unequal exposure of various parts of the retina to brilliant light the
fatigue effects necessarily must vary over the field of vision. A glance
at figure (6) will render the situation clear. The curves in this figure
