714 VERHOEFF AND BELL.
seasons of the year, usually disappearing during the winter months.
For this reason sunlight has been suggested as the etiological factor
in the disease.
This hypothesis was first advanced by Schiele ^^^ and advocated
by Kreibich ^^^ who showed that an occlusive bandage had a favorable
effect upon the symptoms. This effect, however, may be explained
in other ways than by the shutting out of light. Birch-Hirschfeld ^^
repeatedly exposed the conjunctiva of a rabbit within a period of
18 months to the "Uviol lampe" of Schott and obtained changes
stated to be not unlike those of vernal catarrh. He does not, however,
accept the view that the latter is due to ultra violet light. No doubt
similar changes could be produced by other irritants frequently
applied.
The evidence for the view that vernal catarrh is due to the action
of sunlight, therefore amounts to little more than the fact that the
symptoms are most pronounced in the spring and summer. This
fact, however, is accounted for even better on the more recent theory
that the disease is due to pollen. Moreover the following objections,
that to us seem insurmountable, may be urged against sunlight as a
cause. In the first place if vernal catarrh is due to sunlight the lower
lid, which is not only more exposed, but thinner and more trans-
parent, should be more affected than the upper lid, whereas, as a
matter of fact, it entirely escapes involvement. In this connection
it may be noted that in cases of trachoma, a somewhat similar disease,
the lower lid also usually escapes and here the disease is undoubtedly
due to some infectious agent. Similarly this theory is inconsistent
with the fact that the bulbar conjunctiva, which is directly exposed
to tiie light, is but seldom affected, and almost never affected in associ-
ation with the palpebral form of the disease.
Finally, the possibility of abiotic action is ruled out by the fact
that it is impossible for abiotic waves to pass through the entire
thickness of the lid, if only on account of its rich vascularization.
This objection does not apply to possible heat effects produced by
visible or infrared rays, but in this case it would be necessary to
assume exposure of the eyelid to direct sunlight for considerable
periods of time as well as special sensitiveness of the conjunctiva to
heat, neither of which conditions seems possible.
