EFFECTS OF RADIANT ENERGY ON THE EYE. 715
Senile Cataract.
The theory has been advanced (see page 780) that senile cataract
is due to exposure of the lens to daylight, particularly that from the
sky. This is based solely on the fact that the cataractous changes
usually begin in the lower part of the lens. It is undoubtedly true
that the changes do first appear below, but as a rule they are so far
below that they are in a portion of the lens completely shaded by the
iris. Thus it is most often necessary to produce artificial mydriasis
before incipient lens changes can be seen with the ophthalmoscope.
Moreover, if the cataract were due to exposure to light, the pupillary
area should be the first affected, since from such an extended source
as the sky it receives the greatest concentration of light, and since
the chief absorption must occur here. We must conclude, therefore,
that there is no sound evidence for this theory of cataract formation.
A possible explanation of the fact that the lower part of the lens
is usually first affected in senile cataract is that the structure of the
lens ma.y normally be slightly diiferent here than elsewhere. From a
developmental standpoint this is indicated by the fact that coloboma
of the lens usually occurs below. Burge ^^'' has recently attempted
to supply an experimental basis for the view that ultra violet light is
responsible for cataract. He found that the rays from an unscreened
quartz merciny vapor lamp had almost no coagulating efl^ect upon
the lens protein even after an exposure of 72 hours at a distance
of 5 cm. but that when acting in the presence of weak solutions of
calcium chloride, sodium silicate, or dextrose, coagulation occurred.
Since in senile cataracts calcium, magnesium, and sometimes silicates,
are greatly increased, and in diabetic cataracts dextrose is presum-
ably present, Burge assumes that these cataracts are due to the action
of ultra violet light. That is, he assumes that these substance are
present in undue quantities in the lenses of certain individuals and
that this renders their lenses vulnerable to the short waves of daylight.
This assumption is suflSciently controverted by the fact just men-
tioned that senile cataract usually begins at the periphery below.
But in addition, other serious objections to his argument may be
pointed out. In the first place, in traumatic cataracts and cataracts
due to inflammatory conditions, calcium salts, and no doubt mag-
nesium and other salts, are deposited in great abundance, and the
lens may even become completely calcified. In fact, the same thing
occurs in dead tissues anywhere in the bodv, so that the reasonable
