716 VERHOEFF AND BELL.
assumption is that the presence of these salts in senile cataract is a
result not a cause. Then, too, Burge made use of intensities of expo-
sure and wave lengths to which the lens is never subjected during life.
The cornea completely screens it from practically all the short waves
found effective by him. The longest waves with which he could
coagulate proteins were 302 [xfj. in length and the effect produced by
these was insignificant.
Burge suggested also that his results might apply to glassblowers
cataract, overlooking the fact that the latter typically begins at the
posterior pole of the lens, whereas in his experiments the part of the
lens away from the light was little if at all affected. It is of course
obvious that the slight loss of transparency he sometimes observed
in this part of the lens could not have been due to the direct action
of the light, since the effective rays could not have penetrated so far.
The fatal objection to Burge's theory as applied to senile cataract is
that the ultra violet solar rays cannot reach that portion of the lens
where cataract generally begins, and that portion of the lens where
ultraviolet light has the best chance of action is affected only at a
late stage of development.
Concentration of Energy in Images.
We have already shown that superficial action of radiant energy
on the eye depends on the actual energy in ergs per square cm., or
other convenient measure, which falls upon the surface. Such value
is directly as the energy of the source and inversely as the square of
its distance. The density of incidence of energy at points within the
eye is obviously dependent on the amount to which the superficial
energy is concentrated by the refracting media, and at the retina the
concentration of energy is determined by the size of the image and the
aperture of the refracting system, which is determined by the area
of the pupil. In dealing with an extended source the image is corre-
spondingly extended and the surface density of energy in the image
is correspondingly reduced. Hence it is that with sources like the
tube of the quartz arc the image density is relatively small, while
with point sources or those of very small area, like the electric arc,
the retinal area is correspondingly small and of the total energy reach-
ing the pupil there is a greater concentration in the image. Within
limits the intensity of the effect on the retina is then directly pro-
portional to the intrinsic brilliancy, or radiation per unit area of the
