EFFECTS OF RADIANT ENERGY ON THE EYE.
719
sources like carbon incandescent lamps and ordinary flames the
absorption of the total energy rises to nearly 90%. As we have
ah'eady shown this must be increased by miscellaneous losses l)y
reflection so that the amount of energy actually available in the
image on the retina from such sources is very small. It is quite
otherwise with radiants like the sun, which is roughly equivalent
to a body of 5,500 to 6,500 degrees absolute as regards the char-
acter of its radiation. Froni such a source the specific absorp-
tion of water cuts off relatively little, and the total loss of ener'ijy
;^
80
GO
40
■JO
k
c
\
\
0)
(0
C
\
\
/
\
V
/
V
.8 .9 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.1 1.5p,
Wave length
Figure 7. Approximate absorption of 5cm water, from data of Aschkinass.
in the eye is of the order of magnitude of 25 to 30%. In phenomena
like eclipse blindness therefore not only is the eye exposed to a
very powerful radiating source, but the radiation is of such char-
acter that it is not strongly absorbed and hence the energy in the
image may rise to very great intensity. The solar radiation curves
already shown make it plain that the proportion of energy cut off
will be greater the greater the altitude of the sun and the less the
general atmospheric absorption. Taking 30% as the total cut off
in the eye one may obtain an approximate idea of the energy concen-
trated on the retina in observing the sun unscreened, the total radia-
tion being about 10^ ergs per square cm. per second; and assuming
the pupillary diameter to be about 2 mm., approximately 3% of this
energy will enter the eye, and subtracting 30% for absorption and
reflection it results that the total energy concentrated in the image
would be about 20,000 ergs per second. Taking the area aft'ected
as approximately .15 mm. in diameter the concentration of energy
in the image is on the basis of nearly 113 X 10^ ergs per square cm.
per second. Even if only a quarter or a half of this amount is avail-
able in the case of the partially eclipsed sun, it is evident that the
immense concentration of energy in the image is sufficient to produce
