720 VERHOEFF AND BELL.
destructive effects such as have been often clinically noted and which
we have observed in our experiments. From the relatively small
absorption by the eye media in the case of solar radiation it is clear,
however, that it is far more dangerous, in proportion to its intensity,
than any artificial source of radiation.
Passing from the general absorption of the eye for radiant energy
here considered to the specific absorption of the several media, the
facts have been pretty thoroughly established by the researches of
Hallauer^^^, Schans and Stockhausen^^^ and Martin ^^^. As regards
the general volume of radiant energy received by the eye there is no
specific absorption except that already noted due to the aqueous
content. Aside from this the numerical proportion of the energy from
most soiu'ces specifically absorbed in the eye is very small and is con-
fined to the ultra violet region. The human cornea cuts off practi-
cally all the energy of w^ave length less than 295 mi. The lens wipes
out the remaining ultra violet up to a point between 380 /x/x and 400 ^c/i.
The vitreous absorbs strongly in the general region between 250 /jl/j
and 300 h/jl in the thickness in which it exists in the human eye. Only
a very minute proportion of energy within this range gets through so
that the general effect of the absorption in the vitreous in the case of
an aphakic eye is to re-enforce that of the cornea, as is well shown by
the immunity from abiotic action of the retina in our experiment No.
89. In his experiment on the eye of a young rabbit, Martin found the
limits of transmission to be about those here noted, except that the
lens transmitted freely radiations longer than 350 (x/jl. As the human
lens yellows with age its absorption reaches down into the violet,
extending even to 420 fifx.
Eclipse Blindness and Allied Phenomena.
Every recent eclipse of the sun has given rise to numerous cases
of so-called eclipse blindness, due to careless observation of the phe-
nomenon in its partial stages, either with the naked eye or with
altogether insufficient protection. We should not here consider the
matter worthy of attention were it not for the fact that it has been
loosely ascribed, like many other imperfectly investigated ocular
injuries, to the malign effects of ultra violet light. Eclipse blindness
appears in literature as far back as Plato's Phaedo, and is repeatedly
mentioned through classical and post classical times as an appar-
ently not vmexpected phenomenon. The eclipse of April 17, 1912, in
