EFFECTS OF RADIANT ENERGY ON THE EYE. 721
Germany produced a total of many hundred cases of more or less in-
jury to the eyes, as noted by Wendenberg ^^°. Every eye clinic re-
ceived its toll of more or less severe cases. Clinically the immediate
eflFect is marked and immediate scotoma, which does not pass away
promptly but leaves more or less seriovis cloudiness of vision and
accompanying loss of acuity which may be temporary, lasting a few
weeks, or in severe cases permanent. The scotoma is commonly
central and generally of small extent, in a marked proportion of the
cases corresponding fairly well with the dimensions of the sun's image,
although wide variations from this may be due to repeated fixations
overlapping or reenforcing each other. As it is generally impossible
to tell just how long or how often the patient fixed the phenomenon
nothing definite can be postulated concerning various varieties of
scotoma which have been noted by various observers. The ophthal-
moscopic observations usually show changes ranging from scarcely
perceptible, to conspicuous and permanent pathological appearances
involving lasting and destructive injury to the retina. Metamorphop-
sia sometimes appears, the significance of which will be apparent in
connection with some of our experiments, and diminution of visual
acuity is fairly well marked, often falling below one third. With the
progress of time the scotoma tends to contract and in mild cases
normal vision is regained within some weeks, or in the most severe
cases great reduction in acuity persists permanently.*
Our experiments have been directed to the production of an artificial
eclipse blindness in animals, and the examination of the lesions pro-
duced, following up the work of Czerny ^^, Deutschman ^^, Herzog ^^^,
and others with special reference to the intensity required to produce
the lesions noted. The character of the lesions produced in these
experiments is described elsewhere (page 697). The apparatus em-
ployed was powerful enough to produce prompt and acute effects.
For most of the experiment we employed the mirror apparatus shown
in Plate 8 which consisted of a silvered glass mirror 26 cm. in diameter
and 1.5 meters focal length, carried, as shown, in a fork mounting set
up approximately in the meridian and fitted with slow motions in
right ascension and declination so that the beam could be readily
* Jess 200 describes relative ring scotoma for colors in a series of cases, but
does not offer a convincing explanation for its occurrence. Boehm4:8 was un-
able to demonstrate it in any of his cases, although he examined them with
special reference to it. Birch-Hirschfeld^l suggests that a normal eye would
show the same condition if examined in the same way. This criticism would
seem to apply with equal force to the similar scotomata reported by Birch-
Hirschfeld35 himself as occurring after exposure to ultra violet light.
