99
VERHOEFF AND BELL.
directed and kept in position. In use the mirror was slightly tilted
so as to throw the focus just out of the path of the direct incident
beam. The concentration of energy obtained by this instrument was
enormously great, owing to the size of the mirror and its relatively
short focal length. Its area was about 530 square cm. so that with
an average reflective coefficient of 0.75, with good sunlight the re-
flected energy would amount to some 4 X 10^ ergs per second. The
image of the sun formed by this mirror is 13.2 mm. in diameter or
about 1.36 square cm. in area. The energy at the focus then amounts
to approximately 30 watts per square cm. A pupil expanded to say
10 mm. b\' the use of mydriatics would therefore take in a pencil
equivalent to about 24 X 10^ ergs per second. Allowing as in other
cases one-third for the energy absorbed by the media of the eye as a
whole, the energy incident in the image would be approximately 16 X
10^ ergs per second. The diameter of the image in this case is just
over 2.5 mm., corresponding quite exactly to an area of 5 square mm.
The energy density in the retinal image therefore would be about 32 X
10^ ergs per second per sciuare cm. and it was found in our experiments
that an exposure of \ second to this intensity was sufficient to produce
a destructive thermic effect in the retina. This short period is very
striking in comparison with the relatively long exposures necessary to
produce typical eclipse blindness with the naked eye, although it
agrees very well with the data which we later cite regarding energy
burns from other sources. The secret of the relative resisting power
of the naked eye is that usually in observations of the sun, the pupil
is in extreme miosis, so that the amount of energy received is probably
not more than 6% of that computed for the normal pupil, while the
extremely small area of the solar image favors rapid dissipation of the
energy not found when a considerable area is attacked, as in the case
of the mirror experiments. The latter condition we have often noted
in thermal experiments of other sorts with the big mirror and lenses
of various kinds. A concentration of energy very much greater than
that from the mirror, acts much more sluggishly on inflammable
material when the focus is merely a minute point instead of an ap-
preciable area. Another factor that tends to protect the human eye
from the thermic action of light sources of small size, is the impos-
sibility of perfect fixation for any length of time. This is well shown
by some experiments on our own eyes (see page 732).
The screens employed in the work are noted in connection with the
various experiments. Inasmuch as silver reflects very badly in the
region near the extreme ultra violet end of the solar spectrum and it
