EFFECTS OF RADIANT ENERGY ON THE EYE. 723
appeared not desirable to eliminate the possibility of specific injury
due to such rays we employed in part of the experimental work as a
substitute of the mirror in the concentration of the solar energy a
quartz lens 12 cm. in diameter and 25 cm. focal length mounted on
an adjustable stand so that we could work directly in its focus.
A priori the climical evidence is strongly against any definite pathologi-
cal effects due to the ultra violet radiation as such. Numerous cases
are recorded in which typical eclipse blindness has been produced
through ordinary spectacle lenses, through glass insufficiently dark,
and through opera glasses and the like, in all of which cases the abiotic
rays are, as we have already shown, cut off. Even very small thick-
nesses of colored or even clear glasses are sufficient completely to ab-
sorb these rays, which moreover are always cut off by the lens so that
they cannot reach the retina where the lesions are found. This is in
accordance with the conclusions reached by Parsons ^^^ in analyzing
the evidence at hand. Attempts have been made by several investi-
gators, notably Birch-Hirschfeld, to eliminate the infra red rays also
by the use of thick water cells and other absorbing media, but these
attempts so far as experiments with solar light are concerned are fu-
tile, because, as a glance at Figure 5 (page 705) will show, the greater
portion of the solar energy lies entirely within the visible spectrum with
its intense maximum in the blue or green according to the effect of the
atmospheric absorption, so that for solar radiation it is the light rays
which are thermally effective, the energy radiation in the ultra violet
and infra red being relatively insignificant. Our experiments show
with the utmost distinctness that the effects known as eclipse blind-
ness are wholly thermic, due to the intense concentration of the solar
energy upon the retina by the refracting system of the eye itself
forming an image of destructive energy intensity, the amount of which
we have already computed in considering the energy concentrated in
images. It is only the briefness of the casual fixations of the sun, and
the great reduction of the size of the pupil in response to the intense
illumination, that prevents the very common occurrence of such
injuries. In the observation of an eclipse the patient is tempted to
dangerously long fixation and the necessary results follow.
With long fixation the typical retinal lesions of eclipse blindness
may be produced by sources of moderate intensity. For instance in
our experiment No. 53 an exposure of twelve minutes was made on
the eye of an albino rabbit with the single quartz lens system and the
magnetite arc as source, through the 5 cm. quartz water cell. Now
from experiments previously made on the radiation from the magnetite
