726 VERHOEFF AND BELL.
was, from the description, in the neighborhood of 1 sq. mm. Assum-
ing a pupillary diameter of 5 mm. likely to be found in working in a
moderate degree of light when surprised by the short circuit, the
energy entering the pupil would be at least 6 X 10® ergs per second
concentrated in the image, that is an energy density amounting to in
the neighborhood of 6 X 10^ ergs per second per square centimeter
reckoned without regard for absorption. Allowing one third of the
energy absorbed in the eye the energy density in the image should be
4 X 10^ ergs per second per square cm. two or three times, at least,
greater than the corresponding energy density for a direct ol)servation
of the sun, very possibly, owing to the intensity of the short circuit,
even several times greater than this. It is little wonder then that
although the exposure time is stated to be less than 1 second the results
were serious. In true eclipse blindness the length of fixation is the
chief factor in the damage.
Thermic Effects on the Retina from Lightning Flashes.
A consideration of these miscellaneous energy effects on the eye
would be incomplete without referring to the injuries to the eye
received from lightning. In such cases a sharp distinction must be
drawn between cases in which the patient is actually struck by light-
ning, with more or less serious effects, and those in which the patient
is clearly not struck, but subject to direct radiation from a nearby
flash of lightning. In the former class of injuries electrolytic action
and exceedingly severe nervous shock generally occur and the final
results may include various grave ocular symptoms sometimes ending
in complete blindness due to cataract or atrophy of the optic nerve.
In the second r class of cases the effects are usually limited to severe
scotomata which may impair vision for some hours or days but as a
rule there are no lesions visible either superficially or with the ophthal-
moscope, and no permanent damage is done. This immunity is
chiefly due to the usually considerable distance between the actual
lightning bolt and the observer, since the amount of energy actually
involved in a lightning discharge of the first order of magnitude may
be enormously great. Sir Oliver Lodge estimates it as high as 10'-°
ergs. There are a few instances, however, in which the energy re-
ceived at the eye has been great enough to produce typical lesions
both from abiotic action and probably also from purely thermal
