730 VERHOEFF AND BELL.
from the cut-off of secondary radiation of relatively very long wave
length, 4 to 5 n and more, received from radiating surfaces at and below
red heat. The addition of 5 cm. of distilled water in filling the cell
reduced the transmitted radiation to 33%, which represents the radia-
tion between the former limit and approximately 1 ^u. There is every
reason to believe that most of this energy is from the hot body radia-
tion rather than from the line spectrum of the arc itself, for in so far
as known metallic spectra are not rich in intense infra-red lines.
Screen No. 1 then, cuts off 22% of the energy between 1 /x and the
extreme ultra violet. Screen No. 2, medium optical flint, is relatively
transparent, almost as transparent as the light crown screen No. 7,
while the light flint screen No. 4 cuts oft' more energy than either of
these. Used without the water cell all the four screens mentioned
cut off between 50 and 60 % of the total energy due to the large
absorption of glass in the extreme infra red corresponding to the
secondary hot-body radiation of the source.
This secondary radiation being from a very diffused source cannot
have a conspicuous effect in those experiments in which the light
was concentrated through lenses although it comes into play in the
free radiation from the arc. It is quite certain, for instance, that in
the bactericidal experiments with the mercury arc which one of us
has recorded, in which trouble was experienced from heating of the
water in which the bacteria were suspended, this heating was mainly
from the large secondary radiation which is readily stopped by water
rather than from the characteristic radiation of the mercury vapor.
The data heretofore given by one of us on the proportion of ultra
violet energy in the quartz mercury lamp and the magnetite arc may
be regarded as substantially correct for the metallic spectra as such,
the quartz water cell of 1 cm. thickness employed in these experiments
cutting off the secondary radiations rather completely without inter-
fering materially with the energy of the line spectrum. In our
experiments involving total thermic effects necessary corrections for
the conditions of the experiment can be made by reference to the
foregoing table.
As regards the thermic action of radiation on the eye, there is no
reason to suspect any specific effects with respect to wave length.
So far as the action is not definitely abiotic or concerned with the
stimulation of the light perceiving functions of the retina it seems
to be purely a question of energy as in any other case of heating.
The more violent phenomena produced by heating are considered in
our discussion of eclipse blindness and allied phenomena (page 720).
