EFFECTS OF RADIANT ENERGY ON THE EYE. 733
about 0.01 square mm. as determined from photographic data, so
that for a long fixation the energy received would be distributed over
practically 5 square mm. of area. The density in the image as actu-
ally obtained in a long fixation would amount to about 20,000 ergs
per second per square cm., only about 200 P^^* of the energy density
which produced the positive result in experiment No. 53. This
difference is still further enhanced practically by considerable differ-
ence in the size of the image areas, the smaller one being relatively less
effective than the large on account of the more rapid dissipation of
heat. It is therefore evident that an exposure of even 12 minutes
with close fixation to a source as powerful as this arc, a thing which no
rational human being would be likely to undertake, still involves only
a small fraction of the minimum energy known to produce definite
lesions.
Further evidence of the harmlessness of such exposures even to
very pow^erful artificial illuminants may be derived from noting that
the heat concentration in this case, that is 20,000 ergs per second per
square cm. is less than 3^, of that received by direct fixation of the
sun with the same pupillary aperture (see page 719). Now it is
well known that one can fix the sun for a very few seconds without
danger of anything more than a temporary scotoma. From this we
may conclude that the arc here considered may be fixed, as well as it is
possible to secure fixation, for a considerable period without running
danger of a permanent scotoma.
In order to demonstrate beyond any possibility of doubt that the
retina cannot be injured by exposure of the eye to a source such as
the magnetite arc, one of us has actually fixed his eye upon this arc
at a distance of two meters for 6 minutes on two occasions. The
macula itself was not fixed upon the arc but upon an object of the
same size placed 2.6°, to one side of it. In this way more perfect
fixation of the image of the arc on the retina was ensured than if the
arc had been looked at directly. The results were only of a tempo-
rary character. There was considerable xanthopsia lasting about
3 minutes. The scotoma had disappeared after each observation in
less than ten minutes and could only be detected for a few hours by
careful dark adaptation of the eye. The following day no traces of it
were determined. It is therefore clear from actual experiment as well
as from general principles that even the extremely powerful arc which
we have here used is from the standpoint of injury to the retina entirely
harmless under any circumstances conceivable in practical use. Some
large carbon arcs may yield even two or six times the total heat energy
