734 VERHOEFF AND BELL.
of the magnetite arc here in question while yet remaining within
perfectly safe limits from any practical standpoint. No actual arti-
ficial illuminant can fairly be considered dangerous from the standpoint
of thermic action on the retina. It will be observed that since no
screens were used, these experiments also afford evidence of the harm-
lessness of abiotic radiations to the retina.
Glassblowers' Cataract.
The fact that glassblowers are subject to a special form of cataract
has naturally raised the question whether or not the latter is due
to radiant energy and if so, whether to abiotic or thermic action.
Meyhofer ^*^ examined 506 glassmakers and found 11.6% affected with
cataract. The cataract almost always appears first in the left eye
which is the more exposed to the light. When it appears first in the
right eye it has been found that the glassblower has been in the
habit of turning this eye towards the oven (Stein ^*^) . The glassblow-
ers show also a peculiar rusty brown spot on each cheek, more marked
on the left. The length of time necessary for the development of the
cataract has not been exactly ascertained, but it is evidently several
years. The cataract usually begins before the age of 40. In Mey-
hofer's series the youngest blower was aged 15 years and the youngest
affected with cataract 17 years. Of 59 cases of cataract, 42 were under
the age of 40. In the latter cases, both eyes were affected in 16, the
left eye alone in 19, and the right eye alone in 7. The glassblowers
are thin and delicate, and are subject to asthma and pulmonary tuber-
culosis. Almost all of them have emphysema of the parotid gland.
During their working hours they perspire excessively and in conse-
quence drink enormous quantities of fluids, including beer, coffee,
wine, and lemonade.
The cataract begins as a rosette like or diffuse opacity in the cortex
at the posterior pole of the lens, the remainder of the lens for a long
time remaining clear. Later, striae similar to those of senile cataract
may appear. At operation the nucleus is found larger than that of
other individuals of the same age (Stein ^*^), and the capsule more
fragile (Cramer ^^). Parsons ^^^ states that in only one-fifth of the
cases does the cataract differ in appearance from a senile cataract,
but this probably applies to the late stages.
Hirschberg ^^^ states that for over 100 years it has been recognized
by various observers that individuals exposed to intense heat and light
