EFFECTS OF RADIANT ENERGY ON THE EYE. 735
are especially liable to cataract. Peters ^^^ suggested that the cata-
ract was clue to the venous stasis in the vortex veins associated with
the forced expiration, analogous to the cataract produced experi-
mentally by tying off the vortex veins. Leber ^^^ advanced the view
that it was due to concentration of the aqueous resulting from evapo-
ration from the cornea and the loss of water from excessive perspira-
tion. Parsons ^^^ suggested that the cataract results from altered
nutrition due to overheating of the ciliary body. Cramer ^^, Stein ^*^,
and others believe that it is due to ultra violet light (chemical action),
while Vogt ^^^ regards the infra red rays as chiefly responsible.
The great frequency with which glassblowers' cataract occurs, its
relatively uniform type, and the fact above all, that it occurs first in
the more exposed eye, show clearly enough that it is chiefly due to the
action of radiant energy on the eye itself. This is supported also by
the fact that the cheek shows a more marked area of discoloration on
the side of the first affected eye. The further questions whether the
cataract is due to the direct action of the light upon the lens, or upon
the eye as a whole, and whether it is due to abiotic or thermic action,
are not quite so easily answered.
The character of the radiation from molten glass is well known. It
is that from a homogeneous body of relatively low temperature, 1200°
to 1400° C. It is certain that the spectrum of a non gaseous body
at this temperature does not include any of the so-called abiotic radia-
tion since the extreme limit of the spectrum of molten glass found by
any investigator is 320 nfx and estimates range from that to 334 /xju.
We have already shown that the abiotic action cannot be traced
beyond 305 nfj, and there is not the slightest indication from our
researches or any predecessors that there is reason to suspect an
extension of such activity to waves longer than 320 MM- Even if
there were, such rays would be stopped at the front of the lens by its
absorption and hence would be unable to affect the posterior cortex.
Moreover the radiation of a body at such temperature is relatively
very weak all through the ultra violet, the maximum, according to
Planck's law, for a body at 1300° C. lying far in the infra red
while the energy in the whole visible and ultra violet part of the
spectrum is less than 1% of the total. Hence to ascribe injurious
effects to the visible or ultra violet radiation without eliminating
once and for all the 99% of infra red radiation is to lose all sense
of proportion between cause and effect. To follow up the theory
of the matter a little further we have shown that the specific
.abiotic action is clearlv to be eliminated. Of the ravs whicii are
