56 BRIDGMAN.
range of this paper is from 0° to 200°, and from 1 to 12000 kgm. The
measurements to be given here must be regarded as only the beginning
of an attack on an immense field. The most important immediate
task would seem to be the collection of a large mass of data, so that
we may become familiar with the general types of phenomena. About
the only discussion that can be attempted is a thermodynamic one,
and even from this narrow point of view the measurements are not
sufficient to completely determine the behavior of the several phases.
We can go only a little way toward the solution of the general problem,
which is to predict from the properties of any one phase when to expect
new polymorphic phases, and what their properties will be. We may
perhaps expect more definite results when methods such as are used
here are taken in conjunction with recent X-ray methods for determin-
ing crystal structure.
Thermodynamically, the transition between two solids is charac-
terized by the same elements as determine the melting and the vapori-
zation curves, and from this point of view the discussion of previous
papers ^ is applicable. As a matter of fact, however, the character
of the solid-solid curves may vary much more widely than that of
the melting or vaporization curves. For instance, all vaporization or
melting curves, absolutely without exception, either rise or fall over
their entire length, while solid-solid curves may have either a maxi-
mum temperature or pressure. In the previous discussion it was not
necessary, therefore, to consider certain special relations between the
thermodynamic constants at the maximum points, but now these
relations become of importance. A discussion of these is given in the
following. Another matter that needs reconsideration is that of
the effect of impurities at a point of maximum pressure. Evidently
the usual statement of the effect of impurity as causing a displaced
temperature of equilibrium will not serve here. In the following are
given the slight modifications necessary in the usual discussion to find
the pressure shift of the equilibrium line.
It has been possible to give a much more thorough investigation of
the difference of compressibility, thermal expansion, and specific heat
between the several phases than was possible in the case of melting.
The reason for this is the much greater relial)ility of the experimental
measurements of the difference of compressibility between the separate
phases, because, except in those cases where the impurity forms mixed
crystals, there is absolutely no rounding of the corners of the volume-
1 P. W. Bridgman, Phys. Rev. 3, 126-203 (1914), and 6, 1-33 (1915).
