POLYMORPHIC TRANSFORMATIONS OF SOLIDS. 57
pressure isothermals preliminary to a reaction. Furthermore, in the
ease of those substances whose phase diagrams contain triple points,
it is possible to calculate completely the three differences from the
thermodynamic data of the transition curves alone.
Among the data which do not enter into the thermodynamics of
phase change, but are nevertheless of significance for the mechanism
of the transition, may be mentioned the amount of superheating or
subcooling a phase will support, the velocity of transition, and the
width of the band of inrUfference. To fletermine these data so as to
have absolute significance is a matter of great experimental difficulty,
since slight impurities and the character of the apparatus produce
great changes in the measured effects. No such measurements have
been attemptefl in this work. Nevertheless a number of qualitative
and comparative measurements have been made incidentally in the
course of the measurements, which are of orienting value. Since
these measurements are so different in their character from the ther-
modynamic measurements which form the bulk of this paper, it has
seemed best to reserve most of them for anotlier paper.
This paper is the first of several which are to deal with solid transi-
tions under pressure. In this first paper T will give the preliminary
thermodynamic discussion which will be necessary to all the work on
solid transitions, and also data for a number of such transitions.
Discussion of the data may be profitably left for later papers, after a
greater mass of data has been presented.
Experimental Procedure.
The procedure was, except for some minor details, like that of two
previous papers.^ The most important difference is in the receptacle
for holding the substance under investigation. Most of the sul)stances
were solid throughout the range of investigation. If the substance
was one not dissolved by kerosene it was usually rammed dry into a
thin shell made of a piece of steel tubing, open at both ends, the
tubing just fitting the inside of the pressure cylinder. The shell
was held in a heavy steel form during the filling, so that it should not
be bulged by the ramming into place of the material, which was accom-
plished with a steel piston and a heavy hammer. Frequently after
the shell had been filled, numerous holes were drilled laterally through
the walls, to procure as ready access as possible by the kerosene to all
