58
BRIDOaUN.
^— A
parts of the mass. It might at first thought seem that the steel shell
would produce irregularities by tending to hinder the change of
volume accompanying the reaction, but no irregularities of this nature
were ever found. Sometimes, when the substance could be melted
without danger of decomposition, it was melted, instead of hammered,
into the shell. Under these conditions the shell was, of course, closed
at the bottom end. If the substance were one soluble in kerosene,
two slightly different methods were used. By the first method, the
salt was formed into a cylinder of suitable dimensions, either by ram-
ming into a split mound or by melting into a form, and then sub-
merged under mercury in a steel shell, being prevented from rising
by a clip at the upper end. Or it might be hammered or melted into a
steel cylinder, which was then inverted below the surface of mercury
as shown in Figure 1. This method is applicable if the substance
melts somewhere within the range of the experi-
ment, and was used in all such cases. The air, of
course, was exhausted in this case. The chief
trouble with this method of the inverted cup is
that the cup is very likely to be ruptured by the
change of volume during either melting or the
change from one solid to another. Substances are
strikingly different in their rigidity and the readi-
ness with which they rupture the cylinder. It is
significant that the shell was never ruptured while
determining transitions in the low pressure appa-
ratus; this is another bit of evidence showing the
greatly increased rigidity, or better, viscosity, pro-
duced by high pressures. The shells finally had to
be made of hardened chrome nickel steel of the
dimensions shown, and even then they were some-
times broken. The dimensions of the free space
allowed for the mercury are of importance, since
the kerosene must not come in contact with the
substance in consequence of the changes of volume
brought about by the transitions or the compres-
sibility. The proportions shown sufficed for all sub-
stances investigated here up to 12000 kgm.
In other respects the apparatus was of the same
design as that previously used, but accidents necessitated the renewal
of various parts. Three lower cylinders were ruptured, two by amal-
gamation, and one by a violent explosion. This explosion also ruined
Figure 1. The
modified form of
container for those
substances which
melt within the
range of the exper-
iments.
