62 BRIDGMAN.
formula. Conversely, of course, the formula for the pressure shift
does not apply at a horizontal part of the transition line, where
Vl — t'2 = 0.
These formulas have been subjected to no restriction in the deriva-
tion except that the phase (1) is that in which the impurity is dissolved.
This might, if we liked, be the phase stable at the higher pressure or the
lower temperature, instead of as we have shown it. The formulas
show that in all cases the effect of impurity is to shift the transition
line into the region of the pure phase. For a given concentration of
the impurity, that is, for a given osmotic pressure, the displacement is
greatest for those substances with a small latent heat and a small
change of volume. These are much smaller for the solids investigated
here than for liquids, so that one would expect in general the displace-
ment of the transition lines to be greatest for the substances investi-
gated here. But as has been remarked, very few of these substances
contain dissolved impurities (form mixed crystals), so that most of the
transition lines are unaffected by what impurities there may be.
If the impurity is soluble in both phases, we get for the pressure
shift
^ ViApi — V2Ap2 • .
Vi — ^2
and for the temperature shift
^^=-AH
Ti Api — V2 Api
This shows that if the total amount of impurity is slight, and if it is
so distributed between the two phases that Vi Ajh = % Ap2, then there
is no shift of the transition line.
The phenomena in the neighborhood of a triple point offer no
particular difficulty. It may be shown directly by substitution that
the displaced transition lines must pass through a triple point as well
as the original lines, no matter what the relative amounts of impurity
dissolved in the three separate phases. This of course is what we
know must be the case from other considerations.
It should be noticed that although these formulas are entirely valid
when the impurity is dissolved in more than one phase, nevertheless
the conditions under which they are derived are not always close to the
conditions of practise. We have assumed a knowledge of Api and
A;^. This demands that we know the way in which the impurity
is divided between the two phases. In practise this problem of the
distribution of the impurity must usually be solved first, since the
