64 BRIDGMAN.
varies greatly over the pressure range of 12000 kgm. But in the case
of the solids to be studied here, it seems reasonable to assume a con-
siderably better approach to constancy of the three differences. For
instance, the compressibility of a liquid such as water has decreased
to I its initial value at 12000 kgm., whereas the compressibility of
steel does not vary more than a fraction of one per cent over the
same range. Steel is of course an extreme case, and the difference of
compressibility may change much more than the compressil)ility,
but in any event we would seem to be justified in presuming that Aoc
for two solids is more constant than for a solid and a liquid. A dis-
cussion of the above equation is of more \'alue here, therefore, than in
the case of the melting curves. It will not pay to completely discuss
all possible combinations of the constants. We will, however, show
that the curve may take a great variety of shapes according to the
relations between the constants, and that some of these shapes do not
seem to exist in practise. We infer, therefore, that in practise the con-
stants flo not assume all possible relations to each other; it will be our
problem in the latter part of this paper to determine these constants,,
and find within what relative range they are actually restricted.
We notice in the first place that if Aa > 0, that is, if the high tempera-
ture phase is more compressible, as it is in many cases, that the curve
crosses the pressure axis twice. For we obtain immediately on put-
2 Ac-
ting T = To that p — po = "T — • This means that when the pressure
has been increased sufRciently to squeeze the high temperature phase
into a volimie as much smaller than the low temperature phase as it
was originally larger, the two phases can coexist again in equilil)rium.
This in itself indicates a rather unusual state of affairs; the only
example found so far is //f/Zi- But the equation furthermore indicates
that the curve may under proper conditions break up into two curves,
the second pressure just found lying on the second curve. This would
mean that the same phase may exist in two isolated regions of the
phase diagram, the two regions of stability being separated by the
region of stability of the second phase. Such cases, if they occur at
all in practise, are extremely rare; the only suggestion of such a thing
of which I know is concerning the modification of XHiNOs stable
below —16°, made by Wallerant.^ This however has not been
^•erified in a more recent very careful investigation by Behn,^ although
2 F. Wallerant, Bull. soc. fr. min. 133-374 (1905).
3 U. Behn, Proc. Roy. Soc. 80, 444-4.57 (1907-08).
