POLYMORPHIC TRANSFORMATIONS OF SOLIDS. 65
he was not able to prove definitely that such was not the case. It is
interesting to bear in mind that this is at least a theoretical possi-
bility. For the present, then, we shall assume that Aa does not
remain constant over a wide enough range to allow curves with two
branches, and we shall consider only the nearer branch of the cur^'e
in the following.
If the two phases have the same specific heats (ACp = 0) the equa-
tion becomes particularly simple, degenerating into a hyperbola. This
hyperbola has one vertical asvmptote and one inclined at an angle
Aa . / *
TTiri^- The hyperbolic form includes a number of types of behavior.
- '^P
If Aa > 0, the curve may rise to a vertical asymptote, or may rise to a
maximum and fall to a vertical asymptote, or rise to a maximum and
fall to an inclined asymptote, or fall to a vertical asymptote, or fall
to a minimum and rise to a vertical asymptote, or fall to a minimum
and rise to an inclined asymptote. And if Aa<0, the curve may rise
to a vertical asymptote or rise to an inclined asymptote with con-
vexity either up or down, or may fall to a vertical asymptote, or may
fall to an inclined asymptote with convexity either up or down. Of
these cases, at least those with a vertical asymptote do not appear to
occur in practise. The hyperbola degenerates into one important
special case. If ACp = 0, and Aa = 2A/3t^ the curve breaks up into
two straight lines (we neglect the second line). Many of the transi-
tion lines actually found are nearly straight, so this condition is ap-
proximated to in practise.
If now, in general, ACp 5^ 0, we see that the curve can ne\er have a
vertical asymptote. It may, howe^'er, have a vertical tangent, and
be double valued with respect to temperature, if ACp<0. This is a
case met in practise, benzol and ice for example. In general the
equation demands at high pressures either a maximum or a minimum,
or a curve with two branches. Since these are not actually of frequent
occurrence, the legitimate use of the equation must be restricted to a
comparatively narrow pressure range. We may perhaps say that very
roughly the usual type of the curve is one concave toward the pressure
axis, whether rising or falling. If the curvature is reversed, and there
are examples of this, it would imply in general either an exceptionally
large positive value of A/3, or a negative value of ACp.
We discuss now the relations at a horizontal or vertical tangent.
W^e have seen in the previous paper that the transition data give us two
relations between Aa, A/3, and ACp. In general one other relation
