68 . bridgman.
Data.
The data for the individual substances follow.
Potassium sulfocyanide. This was Kahlbaum's purest, "zur
Analyse," used without further purification. Two sets of readings
were made; one consisted of five points on the transition curve and
two on the melting curve at higher pressures, and the other was of one
point on the transition curve at low pressures. The transition from
one solid to the other is sharp, so that apparently the solid does not
form mixed crystals with whatever impurity is present. There is
some impurity present, however, as shown by a rounrling of the corners
of the melting curve, but it must be small in amount, because the
melting and freezing ran unusually rapidly and approached closely
the same values from alcove and below, nearly independently of the
amount melted. The impurity is most probably a small amount of
moisture. For the determination at low pressures the sul)stance was
carefully dried in vacuum for seven hours at 100°. The value for
AV found here lies on a smooth curve with the values found at higher
pressures, so the effect of the impurity must be very slight.
For the determination at high pressures, during which melting was
to occur, the KSCN in the form of fine crystals was hammered com-
pactly into a steel shell, open only at the top. For the determination
at low pressures, without melting, the fine crystals were hammered
into a steel shell open at both ends and perforated on the sides with
numerous small drill holes. The somewhat greater restraint offered
by the steel shell in the first run seemed to have no harmful effect.
The quantity used was about 47.5 gm. Pressure was transmitted
directly by kerosene.
The experimental results are shown in Figures 4 and 5 and the
computed values of AH and AE in Figure 6. Table I gives numerical
values at even pressure intervals. It is especially to be noticed that
the values given for the melting curve are only approximate; since
no great effort was made to get these very accurately. Only two
points were determined, so the curvature can not be stated. The
transformation curve and the AJ' curve for the transition solid-solid
are both like the corresponding curves for liquids. The AH curve
falls, however, whereas for the majority of liquids it rises.
The effect of pressure on the transition and melting does not seem
to have been previously determined, so there are no values for compari-
