POLYMORPHIC TRANSFORMATIONS OF SOLIDS. 91
in analogy with CCI4, that a new modification would be found on
increasing pressure at room temperature. None was found, however,
up to 12000 kgm. Temperature was then raised to 127°, and pressure
relieved from 12000. Two transitions were found, at 2800 and 2310.
These transitions both ran sharply, with no rounding of the corners,
and were entirely reversible. The change of volume at the lower
transition was considerably^ less than that of the higher. Even the
approximate location of the melting curve was not known at the time
of this run, so that the low pressure transition might have been melting,
although this seemed unlikely in view of the complete absence of
rounding of the corners. Temperature was then raised to 152°,
and the transitions found with decreasing pressure. Two transitions
were found, but separated by a much wider interval than before, and
there was some preliminary rounding of the corner at the lower point.
This lower point might have been melting this time, therefore, but
there seemed no connection with the low point at 127°. Temperature
was now raised to 176°. The regular transition was found at high
pressures, on a line with the other two points, and a lower point was
also found. This lower point was too high to fall with either of the
other two lower points, and the transition was partly reversible and
partly irreversible; that is, on increasing pressure the return of ^'olume
to the original value was not complete. At 176°, pressure was now
raised to 6000, and the temperature raised to 200°. Pressure was
now increased to 12000 kgm. Two notable decreases of volume were
found on the way to 12000, at approximately 6800 and 7500. But on
decreasing pressure, no transition of any kind could be found down to
4000 kgm., that is, considerably beyond the higher of the two transition
lines. The apparatus was now cooled and taken apart; the CBr4
was found completely decomposed into carbon and bromine. The
products of the decomposition reached all parts of the apparatus,
and there was considerable trouble in cleaning it. In view of this
decomposition and of the fact that the higher of the transition points
lie on a line which extrapolates with little curvature to the known
transition point at atmospheric pressure, this first run was supposed
to indicate only one modification, the lower transition points being
ascribed to some obscure effect of the decomposition.
With this conclusion, the subject was dropped for over a month,
when the rest of the first lot of material was used in the low pressure
apparatus to fix the transition data at atmospheric pressure. Two
runs were made with this; one with increasing temperature at con-
stant pressure, and the other with decreasing pressure at constant
