POLYMORPHIC TRANSFORMATIONS OF SOLIDS. 93
ners, this sample is evidently purer, although it was not perfectly pure,
because there was perceptible rounding for this also. The agreement
of the two samples at high pressures is better than at atmospheric
pressure; doubtless considerable of the impurity shown by the first
sample at low pressures was due to a gradual decomposition, and did
'not affect the values at high pressures, which were determined nearer
to the time of preparation of the sample.
The decomposition phenomena are of special interest; apparently
there are two kinds of decomposition. The first sample showed both
kinds. The first kind of decomposition is one with increasing volume
and took place in notable degree for the first sample at 176°. This is
evidently an effect of the high temperature, and not of the pressure.
The second decomposition is one with decreasing volume, and was
shown by the first sample at 200° and about 7000 kgm. Because of
the decreasing volume, we can tell that this is probably a decomposition
brought about by the high pressure and not by the high temperature.
Such decompositions are not usual; this is the first case of it I have
found. Apparently the result of this decomposition with decreasing
volume is complete resolution into carbon and chlorine. The second
sample showed only the first kind of decomposition with increasing
volume at 145°; at this temperature the decomposition ran very nearly
to completion, only a small trace of the II-III transition being found
on decreasing pressure. The apparatus was cooled and taken apart
after the decomposition at 146°. There was some free bromine, but
apparently no free carbon. The larger part of the mass was a
white solid, but several cu. cm. of a colorless liquid had been formed.
After this run, the steel shell with the CBr4 was sealed into a glass
tube to preserA'e the decomposition products. The colorless liquid
was unstable; after several weeks it had entirely disappeared, its
place being taken by hexagonal crystalline plates. This is not the
crystalline form of either of the forms of CBr4. The chemistry
of this decomposition might prove an interesting subject for investi-
gation.
As regards the accuracy of the results given above, the jj-t values
are probably pretty good, but the AT' values are too high on the I-III
and the II-III curves. This is the result of the slow decomposition,
even at low temperatures. It is known that at atmospheric pressure
C'Br4 decomposes at 100°, so that the decomposition found here is not
surprising. As a result of the high AF values, the AH values are also at
fault. There can be no question of this, because they do not check at
the triple point. There seemed to be no way of adjusting the ^■arious
