744 VERHOEFF AND BELL.
from practical illuminants on the human eye is that no sources com-
mercially employed for such a purpose are to be regarded as dangerous
and that the most ordinary care in providing illumination with which
comfortable vision can be obtained is sufficient for complete security
against all possibility of injury from radiation.
Protective Glasses.
As we have shown, the lens completely screens the retina from
abiotic radiations so that attempts further to protect it from such
radiations by means of glasses of any kind are superfluous. We have
also shown that the retina even of the aphakic eye, imder ordinary
conditions is in no danger of injury by any source of light in common
use, and is no doubt completely protected by the thick cataract glasses
usually worn. In addition we have shown that the retina under
ordinary conditions is in no danger of injury from the heat generated
within it by the light from such sources. Heat effects are to be feared
only in the case of extreme light intensities such as direct sunlight,
and, exceptionally, short circuit arcs and lightning flashes. Against
these any of the extremely dark glasses are effective.
As regards the external eye, as just pointed out, it also is in no danger
from abiotic radiations from any of the usual light sources. Photoph-
thalmia may of course readily be produced by sufficiently long ex-
posures at close range to high power arc lights of any kind, or to the
quartz or uviol mercury vapor lamps, but it is only under special
conditions that such exposures would occur. Here ordinary spectacles
of crown glass usually afford sufficient protection, and adequate pro-
tection would certainly be afforded by any of the ordinary yellowish,
greenish or grayish protective glasses in common use, preferably in
the form of coquilles so as to exclude lateral light. These would also
afford ample protection against snow blindness or the photophthalmia
produced by short circuits. Birch-Hirschfeld ^^ states that from his
own personal experience in protracted and regular working with the
uviol lamp he found complete protection from photophthalmia with
the smoke gray spectacles, and intimates that Stockhausen's claim of
having photophthalmia after working with the electric arc lamp, in
spite of the fact that he wore ordinary spectacles, is readily explained
by the circumstances that common spectacle lenses do not adequately
protect the eye from radiation entering laterally.
For protection of the external eye against extreme heat such as
