108 BRIDGMAN.
shape of the indifferent region makes it impossible to obtain equilib-
rium values on the ascending branch by shutting the pressure within
two limits approached from above and below. The best that could be
done here was to use the method of varying temperature at constant
volume, varying the temperature by small steps, and relying on the
relatively small amount of superheating to get a fairly good value for
the transition temperature. The change of volume can be determined
from these data by methods already used. Evidently the failure of
this method to give any results at 2250 kgm. on the first trial men-
tioned above was because the temperature was not raised sufficiently
high.
The shape of the region of indifference gives rise to curious effects
in the neighborhood of the maximum. Thus at room temperature,
the pressure was once raised to 6500, the temperature was then raised
to 165°, and pressure was raised, with a transition at the expected
place, but on releasing pressure no reverse transition was found on
crossing either branch of the curve. The location of the indifferent
region evidently explains this. On another occasion, temperature was
raised at 6600 completely through the indifferent band, the transition
running as to be expected on emerging at 180°, but on lowering tem-
perature to 175° and reducing pressure, no reverse transition could be
foimd.
The existence of the maximum was further established by the
following runs. First, temperature was raised to 190° at about 2500
kgm., giving the regular transition point at about 165°. At 190°,
pressure was increased to 10,000 with no transition; at 10,000 tem-
perature Avas lowered to 120° with no transition, and at 120° the tran-
sition was found again at the point to be expected on lowering pressure.
Again, starting at 120° and 9000 kgm., temperature was raised to
195° with the transition at the expected point; at 195° pressure was
lowered to 4600 with no transition; at 4600 kgm. temperature was
lowered in steps of 10° to 120°, passing a transition with almost im-
perceptibly small change of volume at 134°, which therefore marks the
lower limit of the indifferent region, and at 120°, pressure was raised
again, the volume returning to its initial value when the initial pres-
sure was reached. To make still more certain that the initial con-
ditions had been recovered, pressure was increased beyond its initial
value at 120°, and the regular transition found both from above and
below. That is, we have here the experiment of describing a complete
circuit and coming back to the starting point, with practically only
one discontinuous change of volume. If the pressure of decreasing
