POLYMORPHIC TRANSFORMATIONS OF SOLIDS.
115
it. The pressure range of the results given here is considerably greater
than that of Tammann, but Tammann's temperature range on the I-II
curve is more extensive. Tammann's second paper is almost exclu-
sively occupied with the lag phenomena on the I-II curve. He finds
that the band of indifference grows rapidly wider at the lower tempera-
tures, becoming so wide at liquid air temperatures that II may be
realized at atmospheric pressure. In this work, the same qualitative
behavior of the band of indifference was found. At 0° the width of
the band was 180 kgm.; at 25°, 80 kgm.; at 35°, 50 kgm.; at 50°,
20 kgm.; and between 57° and 62° no difference could be detected
in the pressures reached from above and below. From one of Tam-
mann's diagrams I should estimate the width of his band to be about
350 kgm. at -10°, 200 kgm. at 0°, 50 kgm. at 10° and above 30° the
scale of his diagram does not allow an estimate. Apparently the width
of his band decreases with rising temperature more rapidly than mine.
This emphasizes that too little is known at present of the various
factors which determine the width of the band to allow us to attach
significance to the absolute width of the band when measured under
different conditions.
Tammann's transition line I-II showed one other remarkable
feature in that at the upper end it rises
much more rapidly than it does at the
lower temperatures. Tammann's sub-
stance was somewhat impure, as he
himself recognized, so that it was ques-
tionable how much of the curvature could
be laid to the account of the impurity,
but Tammann suggested that it might
be found that for the pure substance the
transition line would pass through a verti-
cal position, and consequently the latent
heat through a zero value, before reach-
ing the triple point. In the effort to
settle this question, I made careful meas-
urements of the transition coordinates
between 50° and the triple point; these
are reproduced on a much enlarged scale
in Figure 30. It is seen that no point
departs from the straight line (this is the
same straight line which passes through
the low temperature points) by more than 3 kgm., which is the limit
50
1900 2100
Pressure, kgm. /cm/
Phenol
Figure 30. Phenol. Points
on the upper end of the tran-
sition line I-II on a very much
enlarged scale. There is no
curvature appreciable.
