POLYMORPHIC TRANSFORMATIONS OF SOLIDS. 117
There are three different methods of attack on the values for the
difference of compressibility, expansion, and specific heat for this
substance. In the first place, a direct measurement of the difference
of thermal expansion of the liquid and the solid I was possible at low
pressures. The phenol was so pure that the rounding of the corners
was very slight, and this value ought to be fairly good. Then direct
measurements were made of the difference of compressibility of I
and II along the transition line. These values are fairly good, espe-
cially at the lower temperature. And finally, at the triple point, we
have theoretically the means to calculate all the differences between
the two phases. But actually the various derivatives are not known
accurately enough to permit this calculation at the triple point. For
instance, a rigorous solution of the six equations at this point demands
that I is less compressible than II, whereas direct experiment shows
that it is more compressible. The values follow. At 77 kgm. the
liquid is more compressible, more expansible and has a greater specific
heat than I, as follows:
Aa = 0.000025 ]
A^ = 0.00027 [
ACp = 6.9 [kgm. cm./gm.] J
A/? was found by direct experiment and the others were computed.
The value found by Block ^^ for A/3 is considerably less than that
found here, 0.00017 against 0.00027.
At the triple point it was established by direct experiment that
I is more compressible than II. The difference of compressibility
increases somewhat at the lower temperatures. At the triple point
the difference is of the order of 0.000005. The difference of compres-
sibility between liquid and I calculated from this is about O.O4I5.
This value may probably be counted on with some certainty because it
is not much affected by changes in the value of Aan. The differences
in expansion between the two phases are, however, very susceptible
to errors in the compressibility. One cannot conclude with certainty
which of I or II is more expansible. The liquid is certainly more
expansible than I and the difference is of the order of 0.0002. More
than this cannot be stated. The differences of specific heats between
the liquid and the two solids are also very susceptible to slight errors ;
small changes in the constants may change the sign. The difference
of specific heat between the two solids is not so sensitive, however,
and it seems fairly certain that the specific heat of I is lower than that
of II, perhaps a surprising result. The difference is small, and of the
order of 0.3 kgm. cm. per gm.
