128 WARREN.
been thought best to put on record the results of the investigation
as it stands.
In recent years J. H. L. Vogt ^ has given us in an elaborate and
suggestive paper, an hypothesis regarding the physico-chemical rela-
tions of the alkali-feldspars. He has not, so far as the writer is aware,
furnished us with a detailed quantitative microscopic and chemical
study combined of particular feldspar intergrowths such as is here
described. In an admirable paper on the Granite Pegmatites of
Tammela in Finland, Eero Makinen ^ has given us a careful chemical
and microscopic study of certain perthites from some of the Tammela
pegmatites, including a quantitative estimate of the amounts of the
two feldspars present in the perthites. Both Vogt's and Makinen's
work will be referred to more fully beyond. Aside from Makinen's
results there has been, so far as the writer is aware, no quantitative
study made of these intergrowths which is at the same time both
microscopic and chemical.
The importance of perthitic feldspars in many members of the
granite and syenite families of rocks, and the lack of precise knowl-
edge regarding them, is sufficient to indicate the importance of our
having further ciuantitative information regarding them and has led
the writer to attempt the present investigation. To anyone familiar
with the characteristics of perthites and microperthites it will be
obvious that data of a very precise character will be difficult to obtain.
The coarser textured perthites of the granite pegmatites clearly ofi'er
a better chance of yielding quantitative results of greater precision
than the finer microperthites of the granitoid rocks and were, there-
fore, made the subjects of a first attempt. The results are offered in
the belief that they at least furnish a rather close approximation to the
truth so far as the granite pegmatite feldspars are concerned, and the
hope is entertained that they may, if applied with caution, throw some
further light on the mode of origin of perthitic intergrowths in general.
With regard to the geological relationships of the pegmatites from
which the perthites here studied have been taken, little can be stated
at the present time. With the exception of the feldspar from Perth,
Ontario, and perhaps that from Bedford, Ontario, the pegmatites are
connected with an ordinary type of granite, one rather siliceous, low
in lime, iron and magnesia, and relatively high in the two alkalies,
1 Tschermak's Min. u. Pet. Mitt., 24 (1905).
2 Die Granite Pegmatite von Tammela in Finnland und ihre Minerale,
Bull. d. 1. Commission Geologique de Finnlande, 1913.
