CYRUS GUERNSEY PRINGLE. 915
It is far easier to indicate the regions in Mexico where Pringle did
not collect than where he did. In the following states he collected
not at all or only to slight extent: Taraaulipas, the coastal portions
of Vera Cruz, Tobasco, Campeachy, Yucatan, and Chiapas. His
work extended to practically all the other states and most of them he
explored repeatedly and with all feasible thoroughness.
He was very methodical in his work. At the outset he collected
about forty specimens of each kind selected. Later, as his reputation
increased and he was able to secure wider sales for his duplicates, he
augmented this number to fifty and at length to sixty specimens of a
kind. Returning to his home in Vermont after a season in the field,
he would make up his sets, submit one complete set to specialists for
expert determination, care for the printing of labels, and ship his
duplicate sets to the numerous subscribers both in this country and to
nearly all the important herbaria in other parts of the world.
Although earnestly devoted to his work, he was very humanly
subject to a sort of rhythmic ebb and flow of enthusiasm. Each year
in returning from his long and arduous journeyings, he would assure
his friends that he could never return to Mexico, that he had ex-
hausted the botany of the country so far as it was accessible to a man
of his age and strength, that he believed he would devote himself to
indoor work in his herbarium. After several winter months, devoted
most happily to this indoor work, he would again become restless,
would earnestly study the map of Mexico, and as soon as sufficient
money returns accrued from the sales of his plants of the previous
season, he would be off on his way back to Mexico with even more
ambitious plans than any he had previously ventured upon.
It has been estimated by a close friend and excellent botanist that
Pringle collected in all more than 500,000 specimens of plants, repre-
senting about 20,000 different species and varieties, of which about
12 per cent were new to science.
From 1898 until his death Pringle was the officially appointed
Collector for the Gray Herbarium of Harvard University, and it has
been at that establishment that the greater part of his remarkably
interesting collections of plants have been identified and the numerous
novelties have been given scientific study and publication, though
in this work several specialists elsewhere, notably at the Department
of Agriculture and United States National Museum, have given much
expert aid.
From the beginning of his botanical work to the end of his fife
Pringle was greatly interested in developing his own herbarium and,
