PERTHITIC FELDSPARS. 131
microscope in thin section. The albite is usually well twinned,
though sometimes so minutely as to be hardly discernible. This
feature renders the exact measurement of the extinctions difficult.
Remarks on the individual specimens: No. 1, from Perth, Ontario,
Canada. — This specimen, from the original locality, is the richest
in albite of any of the feldspars studied. It consists of a rather dark
reddish-brown microcHne intergrown with about an equal amount
of a light red to almost white albite. The red color is due to the pres-
ence of exceedingly minute crystal scales of hematite which are chiefly
contained to the microcline. They are usually arranged along defi-
nite crystallographic directions. Some hematite is found along frac-
tures in the albite, or is more irregularly placed. It is estimated that
there is about one-third as much of this material in the albite as in
the microcline. The albite lamellae seldom exceed 1 mm. in width
while a commonly observed width is 0.5 mm. The microcline bands
will in general average broader than the albite. The orientation of
the bands is fairly uniform parallel to the usual direction, but there
is a common tendency to bend off toward the direction of the prism
and often many short bands coalesce along this same direction.
Pinching and swelling, branching and coalescing, often in a very com-
plex fashion, are common particularly in certain areas. The albite
forms minutely pointed surfaces of contact with the microcline as a
rule. The microcline sometimes shows very distinct polj^synthetic
twinning but more often this is faintly developed and is often not
visible at all. There is a slight alteration of the microcline to a fine
opaque dust but on the whole it is quite fresh.
The extinction angles for the two feldspars are as follows : —
Microcline —
on 001 . .
..16° to 17°
n
" 010..
.. 5°
Albite —
" 001 . .
. 4.5°
((
" 010..
..19°
Sipecinien, No. 2, Westficld, Mass., U. S. A. — Color white; perthitic
structure not conspicuous. The microcline is practically devoid of
structure as seen under the microscope. The albite lamellae rarely
exceed 0.8 mm. in width, the majority running from 0.1 mm. to 0.3
mm. ; they vary much in width along their length, pinching out and
frequently forking at the ends. Besides the usual very minute
lamellae running parallel to the general direction of intergrowth there
is a set which makes an angle of about 12° with the basal clea\age in
