132 WARREN.
010 sections. The microeline is quite fresh; the albite contains fre-
quently minute vesicles. A few muscovite flakes were noted.
The extinction angles are: —
Microeline — on 001 .... 18°
— " 010.... 4.5°
Albite — " 001.... 3.7°
— " 010.... 18°
Specimen No. 3, from Thirteen Island Mine, Bedford Township,
Frontinac Co., Ontario, Canada.— The color is a light flesh red;
perthitic structure can be seen only imperfectly although its presence
is suggested by a lining seen most clearly on the 010 cleavage. The
feldspar is, therefore, essentially a microperthite. The albite lamellae
are very small, rarely exceeding 0.1 mm. in width and averaging con-
siderably less. There is, however, a fairly sharp distinction in order
of magnitude between the larger bands and the series of very minute
lamellae which lie between them. The smaller series have the appear-
ance of being more strongly segregated midway between the larger
ones. The latter are quite irregular in direction and they commonly
break up into several veinlets of smaller bands, or even into a series
of lenticular bodies, which may coalesce farther on into a single band
again. In some areas the structure is extremely complex and great
care and patience had to be exercised in order to obtain accurate
measurements. The microeline in the proximity of the albite bands
frequently contains numerous minute specks or vesicles, some of
ferruginous character. (Hence the red color of specimen.)
The twinning in the microeline, though very fine, is exceedingly
perfect and beautiful; that in the albite is also very fine so that exact
extinction measurements are difficult to make. Furthermore the
extinction positions in the microeline in 010 sections are variable.
This is probably due to a slight deorientation of the feldspar and is
doubtless connected with the slight variations in the level of the cleav-
age sui'faces, particularly noticeable in this feldspar. The extinction
angles are: — ■
Microeline — on 001 .... 17°
— " 010.... 5° to 10°.
Albite — " 001 .... 4° to 5° (average of several
measurements made on broader twin lamellae).
— on 010.. ..17.8°
