PERTHITIC FELDSPARS.
133
S'pccimen No. 4, from Mineral Hill, Delaivarc-Co., Pa., U. S. A. —
The color is slightly brownish to cream; only an indistinct lining
indicates the perthitic structure so that this feldspar is essentially a
microperthite. The albite bands are rarely over 0.2 mm. in width
and range commonly from 0.05 mm. to 0.1 mm. They are individu-
ally quite irregular as to shape, continuity and direction, though taken
as a whole they are uniform for this feldspar. A few deorientated
crystals of albite were noted closely associated with the albite bands.
Both feldspars are well twinned, particularly the microcline. A few
well grown small crystals of muscovite are present; the alteration is
very slight.
Extinction angles are as follows: —
Microcline — on 001 .... 16° to 17° on broader twin bands.
— " 010.... 6°
Albite — " 001 ... . 3°
— " 010. ...19°
Speciinen No. 5, from Pikes Peak, Colo., U. S. A. — Color a fresh
light green; rather short albite lamellae are easily seen although the
greater part of the albite is inconspicuous. The albite lamellae rarely
exceed 0.6 mm. in width. They are sometimes of the usual elongate
form, but more often they are short, irregular in outline and discon-
tinuous, and are usually rather widely separated from one another.
They often taper rapidly or may even terminate bluntly. They may
follow for a short distance the usual direction of intergrowth and
then turn off, apparently toward the direction of the prism. In 010
sections the lamellae appear in general to be longer but are also quite
irregular, particularly as to width. Sometimes the position of a
lamella will be occupied by a series of rather stout but small shreds.
A few independently orientated albite crystals are present. Twin-
ning is strongly developed in both members. The extinction angles
are: —
jNIicrocline -
- on 001 . .
..17°
((
- " 010. .
. . 5°
Albite
- " 001. .
.. 3°
iC _
- " 010..
..19°
Specimen No. 6, from Grafton, N. H., U. S. A.^ — White to almost
4 The locality of this feldspar is not absolutely certain. It is from New
Hampshire and probably Grafton.
