134 WARREN.
clear in color; the albite lamellae are very clearly marked. They
rarely exceed 0.6 mm. in width. The bands follow fairly well the
usual direction although they frequently bend away from it. This
is true also in the 010 sections where there is a rather unusual amount
of departure from the usual angle of about 70° with the basal clea\'-
age. A few independent albite crystals were noted. Both feldspars
are strongly twinned. The structure of the microcline as seen in 010
sections is peculiar. Between crossed nicols the extinction is not
uniform. There seems to be a sort of a fine lamellar structure devel-
oped with varying distinctness in different areas. This is often more
distinct against a cleavage line where minute wedge-shaped lamellae,
having different positions of extinction, are to be seen. The extinction
angles vary from 1° to 7° but are never sharp. The impression is that
there has been a slight deorientation of the feldspar following particu-
larly along the general direction of the intergrowth which is sub-
stantially that of the Murchinsonite parting. It is probably here
also connected with the slight variation in level observed in the
main cleavage surfaces and has probably been caused by crushing
movements in the pegmatite subsequent to its consolidation. The
twinning in the albite shows also some irregularities of position.
Extinction angles are: — •
Microcline — ^ on 001 .... 17°
— " 010.... l°to7°.
Albite — " 001 ... . 3°
— " 010.... 17°
Quantitative Methods of Sfudy employed; Microscopic. — The relative
amounts of the two members of the intergrowths were determined by
the well knowTi micrometric method first described by Rosival. From
a carefully chosen clea\'age fragment of each feldspar to be studied,
two very large thin sections were cut, one parallel to the basal, and the
other parallel to the brachypinacoidal cleavage. These sections were
especially prepared for the writer by the firm of Voigt & Hochgesang,
of Gottingen, Germany, and no little credit is due to them for the
exceptional quality and size of the sections. The measurements were
all made with the large mechanical stage of Zeiss, which is superior to
any other with which the author is familiar for measurements of this
kind. The scales used were all carefully calibrated. In general the
lines of measurement were run at distances of a millimeter apart.
